docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/introduction-to-managing-apps.md, before:

# Introduction to Managing Apps

You can add all kinds of functionality to your DXP installation by purchasing and installing apps. Apps are available in the [Liferay Marketplace](./purchasing-apps-on-liferay-marketplace.md), and tools such as the [App Manager](./managing-apps.md) are also available to help you manage apps in your installation.

## Liferay Marketplace

Liferay Marketplace is a hub for sharing, browsing, and downloading apps. It can be used to browse or purchase apps to quickly add them to your installation. See [Using the Liferay Marketplace](./purchasing-apps-on-liferay-marketplace.md) for more information.

![Use the Liferay Marketplace to quickly purchase and install apps to your DXP installation.](./introduction-to-managing-apps/images/01.png)

Once you have purchased an app, there are also a couple of options for how to download it to your installation. See [Downloading Apps](./downloading-apps.md) for more information.

## Installing Apps

Apps can be installed to your DXP Installation either through the UI or through the file system. You can [use the file system](./installing-apps-via-the-file-system.md) to drop an LPKG file into your deployment directory, either with a server restart or using auto deployment. Note that you should install apps through the file system with a server restart in production-grade environments.

You can also use the UI to install apps by using auto deployment, either through [the Marketplace plugin](./purchasing-apps-on-liferay-marketplace.md), the Purchased Apps screen in the Control Panel, or the [App Manager](./managing-apps.md). See [Installing Apps via the UI](./installing-apps-via-the-ui.md) for an overview of this approach.

## App Management

Once apps have been installed to your instance, you can manage them from there using the [App Manager](./managing-apps.md) in the Control Panel. The App Manager provides an interface to browse, install, and uninstall all currently available apps.

### Blacklisting Apps and OSGi Components

The blacklisting feature lets you designate apps or components as unavailable, preventing them from being used. See [Blacklisting Apps](./blacklisting-apps.md) or [Blacklisting OSGi Components](./blacklisting-osgi-components.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Consolidate app installation docs into one file (since it turns out both require a restart anyway, removing the most critical difference between them)

docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/introduction-to-managing-apps.md, after:

# Introduction to Managing Apps

You can add all kinds of functionality to your DXP installation by purchasing and installing apps. Apps are available in the [Liferay Marketplace](./purchasing-apps-on-liferay-marketplace.md), and tools such as the [App Manager](./managing-apps.md) are also available to help you manage apps in your installation.

## Liferay Marketplace

Liferay Marketplace is a hub for sharing, browsing, and downloading apps. It can be used to browse or purchase apps to quickly add them to your installation. See [Using the Liferay Marketplace](./purchasing-apps-on-liferay-marketplace.md) for more information.

![Use the Liferay Marketplace to quickly purchase and install apps to your DXP installation.](./introduction-to-managing-apps/images/01.png)

Once you have purchased an app, there are also a couple of options for how to download it to your installation. See [Downloading Apps](./downloading-apps.md) for more information.

## Installing Apps

Apps can be installed to your DXP Installation either through the UI (including the Purchased Apps or App Manager screens in the Control Panel) or through the file system. Installing an app will require a server restart, so plan the installation accordingly. See [Installing Apps](./installing-apps) for more information on both of these installation methods.

## App Management

Once apps have been installed to your instance, you can manage them from there using the [App Manager](./managing-apps.md) in the Control Panel. The App Manager provides an interface to browse, install, and uninstall all currently available apps.

### Blacklisting Apps and OSGi Components

The blacklisting feature lets you designate apps or components as unavailable, preventing them from being used. See [Blacklisting Apps](./blacklisting-apps.md) or [Blacklisting OSGi Components](./blacklisting-osgi-components.md) for more information.
