docs/dxp-cloud/latest/en/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/README.rst, before:

Using the Liferay DXP Service
=============================

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service`

Maintenance and Upgrades
------------------------

-  `Applying Patches <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#hotfixes>`__
-  `Activating Products <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#licenses>`__

Configuration
-------------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/configuring-the-liferay-dxp-service`

Scalability and Performance
---------------------------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/setting-up-clustering-in-dxp-cloud`

Customizations
--------------

-  `Deploying Apps, Themes, and Modules <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#themes-portlets-and-osgi-modules>`__
-  `Deploying Customizations from Source <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#source-code>`__

Migrations
----------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/migrating-from-an-on-premises-dxp-installation`

Commit message:

Add MySQL client documentation for DXP Cloud

docs/dxp-cloud/latest/en/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/README.rst, after:

Using the Liferay DXP Service
=============================

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service`

Maintenance and Upgrades
------------------------

-  `Applying Patches <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#hotfixes>`__
-  `Activating Products <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#licenses>`__

Configuration
-------------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/configuring-the-liferay-dxp-service`

Scalability and Performance
---------------------------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/setting-up-clustering-in-dxp-cloud`

Customizations
--------------

-  `Deploying Apps, Themes, and Modules <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#themes-portlets-and-osgi-modules>`__
-  `Deploying Customizations from Source <./using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.md#source-code>`__

Liferay Service Shell
---------------------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/using-the-mysql-client`

Migrations
----------

-  :doc:`/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/migrating-from-an-on-premises-dxp-installation`
