docs/dxp-cloud/latest/en/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud.md, before:

# Upgrading Your Liferay DXP Instance in DXP Cloud

When upgrading your `liferay` image version to a new version, you are required to upgrade your database first for any major version increment. The procedure for upgrading a DXP instance involves downloading the instance's data, running the database upgrade tool, and then uploading the data to the `backup` service again.

```note::
   For large data sets in production, there are several extra considerations that are important for a smooth upgrade. See `the guide to upgrading Liferay DXP <https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/upgrade-overview.html>`__ for a comprehensive overview of the core upgrade.
```

## Prerequisites

Before beginning the upgrade procedure, make sure you have done the following steps:

* [Install MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/5.7/en/).
* Download a bundle for the version of DXP you are upgrading to.

## Download a Backup

Perform the following steps to download a backup of the DXP instance currently running in your `prd` environment:

1. Log in to the DXP Cloud console.

1. Navigate to your production environment, then select _Backups_ from the menu.

    ![Navigate to the Backups page in your production environment.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/01.png)

1. Choose one of the backups listed and select _Download_ from the Actions menu. Repeat this to download both the data volume and database as separate zip files.

    ![Click each option to download both the data volume and database archives.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/02.png)

## Extract and Import the Data

The next step is to extract the data from the downloaded archives and move the data to where it is needed for the upgrade.

```important::
   If you have previously used the Liferay bundle that you are using for this data upgrade, then temporarily move any existing subfolders in the ``LIFERAY_HOME/data`` folder beforehand. This step will prevent the data from your previous usage of the bundle from interfering with the data from the backup.
```

Perform the following steps to extract and import the data from the backup:

1. Move the downloaded `.tgz` archive of the data volume (named `backup-lfr-<PROJECT_NAME>-prd-<BACKUP_ID>.tgz`) into the `LIFERAY_HOME/data` folder of your Liferay bundle.

1. Open a command prompt within this folder and run the following command to extract the archive:

    ```bash
    tar -xvzf ARCHIVE_NAME.tgz
    ```

1. Run the following commands to extract the database archive:

    ```bash
    cd path/to/archive
    ```

    ```bash
    tar -xvzf ARCHIVE_NAME.tgz
    ```

1. Log into the MySQL client on your local system:

    ```bash
    mysql -u root -ppassword
    ```

1. If the database does not yet exist, then create the database before importing. The default database name is `lportal`:

    ```
    create database DATABASE_NAME;
    ```

    ```note::
       If the database already exists, then this command will fail (with ``ERROR 1007``). This error will not affect any data, so it is still safe to run.
    ```

1. Import the database from the extracted `.sql` dump:

    ```
    use DATABASE_NAME;
    ```

    ```
    source DATABASE_NAME.sql;
    ```

1. Finally, disconnect from the MySQL client:

    ```
    exit
    ```

The database and document library are now in place and ready for you to perform the data upgrade.

## Perform the Upgrade

DXP bundles provide an upgrade tool that is used for data upgrades. This tool is invoked through a script included in the bundle, `db_upgrade.sh`.

```note::
   The database upgrade tool can be pre-configured for more flexibility when running it. See `Using the Database Upgrade Tool <https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/using-the-database-upgrade-tool.html>`__ for more information on advanced usage.
```

Open a command prompt within your `LIFERAY_HOME/tools/portal-tools-db-upgrade-client` folder. Then, run the following command:

```bash
db_upgrade.sh -j "-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Duser.timezone=GMT -Xmx2048m" -l "output.log"
```

The upgrade tool prompts you for information about your installation before beginning the data upgrade. If you have downloaded a Liferay bundle with Tomcat, then it may automatically detect some of the directories as default values.

Here is an example interaction with the upgrade tool entering this information:

```
Please enter your application server (tomcat):
tomcat

Please enter your application server directory (../../tomcat-9.0.17):

Please enter your extra library directories (../../tomcat-9.0.17/bin):

Please enter your global library directory (../../tomcat-9.0.17/lib):

Please enter your portal directory (../../tomcat-9.0.17/webapps/ROOT):

[ db2 mariadb mysql oracle postgresql sqlserver sybase ]
Please enter your database (mysql):
mysql

Please enter your database host (localhost):

(etc.)
```

Once you enter the required information, the upgrade tool performs the data upgrade, and your instance is ready to be pushed back into DXP Cloud.

## Compress the Database and Document Library

Now that your Liferay installation has been upgraded, use the following steps to prepare to upload them again to your `backup` service:

1. Open a command prompt within your `LIFERAY_HOME/data` folder.

1. Run the following command to compress your document library into a `.tgz` archive:

    ```
    tar -czvf volume.tgz document_library
    ```

    ```important::
       If the data volume you downloaded contained more folders (such as a ``license/`` folder), then add these as additional arguments after ``document_library``.
    ```

1. Run the following command to perform a database dump:

    ```
    mysqldump -uroot -ppassword --databases --add-drop-database lportal | gzip -c | cat > database.gz
    ```

1. Further compress this file into a `.tgz` archive with the following command:

    ```bash
    tar zcvf database.tgz database.gz && rm database.gz
    ```

The database and Liferay data volume are now ready for you to upload them using the `backup` service's upload API.

## Call the Upload API

Upload the database and document library archives to the `backup` service by calling the upload API:

1. If you are not already logged in, log into the DXP Cloud console.

1. Open `https://api.liferay.cloud/user` in a browser.

1. Copy your user session token from the JSON string shown at this URL. Copy only the value for the `token` property (removing the quotation marks). 

1. Run the following command to call the upload API:

    ```bash
    curl -X POST https://backup-<PROJECT-NAME>-prd.lfr.cloud/backup/upload -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data' -H 'Authorization: Bearer <USER-TOKEN>' -F 'database=@/path/to/folder/database.tgz' -F 'volume=@/path/to/folder/volume.tgz'
    ```

When the call is complete, a new backup appears from your upload, on the _Backups_ page in the DXP Cloud console.

## Restore the Backup

Follow these steps to restore a backup to your chosen environment:

1. Log into the DXP Cloud console, if you are not already logged in.

1. Navigate to your production environment, then click _Backups_ from the side menu.

1. Choose a backup from the list, and then click Restore to from the Actions menu for that backup.

    ![Select Restore to... from the Actions menu for the uploaded backup.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/03.png)

1. Select one of your environments to restore to from the drop-down list (e.g., your `dev` environment).

    ![Select an environment to deploy the backup to.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/04.png)

1. Click _Restore to environment_.

    ```note::
       The chosen environment will be unavailable for some time while the the backup is being deployed.
    ```

Congratulations! You have upgraded your DXP database to the new version and deployed it to your chosen environment. You can also [restore the same backup](#restore-the-backup) again to other environments as needed.

## Additional Information

See the following information pertaining to general DXP upgrades:

* [Liferay DXP Upgrade Overview](https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/upgrade-overview.html)
* [Using the Database Upgrade Tool](https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/using-the-database-upgrade-tool.html)

Commit message:

Add ToC for article (presented as a list of major steps)

docs/dxp-cloud/latest/en/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud.md, after:

# Upgrading Your Liferay DXP Instance in DXP Cloud

When upgrading your `liferay` image version to a new version, you are required to upgrade your database first for any major version increment. The procedure for upgrading a DXP instance involves downloading the instance's data, running the database upgrade tool, and then uploading the data to the `backup` service again.

```note::
   For large data sets in production, there are several extra considerations that are important for a smooth upgrade. See `the guide to upgrading Liferay DXP <https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/upgrade-overview.html>`__ for a comprehensive overview of the core upgrade.
```

**Walk through the following steps of the Liferay upgrade procedure:**

1. [Install prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
1. [Download a backup](#download-a-backup)
1. [Extract and import the data](#extract-and-import-the-data)
1. [Perform the data upgrade](#perform-the-data-upgrade)
1. [Compress the database and document library](#compress-the-database-and-document-library)
1. [Call the upload API](#call-the-upload-api)
1. [Restore the backup](#restore-the-backup)

## Install Prerequisites

Before beginning the upgrade procedure, make sure you have done the following steps:

* [Install MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/5.7/en/).
* Download a bundle for the version of DXP you are upgrading to.

## Download a Backup

Perform the following steps to download a backup of the DXP instance currently running in your `prd` environment:

1. Log in to the DXP Cloud console.

1. Navigate to your production environment, then select _Backups_ from the menu.

    ![Navigate to the Backups page in your production environment.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/01.png)

1. Choose one of the backups listed and select _Download_ from the Actions menu. Repeat this to download both the data volume and database as separate zip files.

    ![Click each option to download both the data volume and database archives.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/02.png)

## Extract and Import the Data

The next step is to extract the data from the downloaded archives and move the data to where it is needed for the upgrade.

```important::
   If you have previously used the Liferay bundle that you are using for this data upgrade, then temporarily move any existing subfolders in the ``LIFERAY_HOME/data`` folder beforehand. This step will prevent the data from your previous usage of the bundle from interfering with the data from the backup.
```

Perform the following steps to extract and import the data from the backup:

1. Move the downloaded `.tgz` archive of the data volume (named `backup-lfr-<PROJECT_NAME>-prd-<BACKUP_ID>.tgz`) into the `LIFERAY_HOME/data` folder of your Liferay bundle.

1. Open a command prompt within this folder and run the following command to extract the archive:

    ```bash
    tar -xvzf ARCHIVE_NAME.tgz
    ```

1. Run the following commands to extract the database archive:

    ```bash
    cd path/to/archive
    ```

    ```bash
    tar -xvzf ARCHIVE_NAME.tgz
    ```

1. Log into the MySQL client on your local system:

    ```bash
    mysql -u root -ppassword
    ```

1. If the database does not yet exist, then create the database before importing. The default database name is `lportal`:

    ```
    create database DATABASE_NAME;
    ```

    ```note::
       If the database already exists, then this command will fail (with ``ERROR 1007``). This error will not affect any data, so it is still safe to run.
    ```

1. Import the database from the extracted `.sql` dump:

    ```
    use DATABASE_NAME;
    ```

    ```
    source DATABASE_NAME.sql;
    ```

1. Finally, disconnect from the MySQL client:

    ```
    exit
    ```

The database and document library are now in place and ready for you to perform the data upgrade.

## Perform the Data Upgrade

DXP bundles provide an upgrade tool that is used for data upgrades. This tool is invoked through a script included in the bundle, `db_upgrade.sh`.

```note::
   The database upgrade tool can be pre-configured for more flexibility when running it. See `Using the Database Upgrade Tool <https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/using-the-database-upgrade-tool.html>`__ for more information on advanced usage.
```

Open a command prompt within your `LIFERAY_HOME/tools/portal-tools-db-upgrade-client` folder. Then, run the following command:

```bash
db_upgrade.sh -j "-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Duser.timezone=GMT -Xmx2048m" -l "output.log"
```

The upgrade tool prompts you for information about your installation before beginning the data upgrade. If you have downloaded a Liferay bundle with Tomcat, then it may automatically detect some of the directories as default values.

Here is an example interaction with the upgrade tool entering this information:

```
Please enter your application server (tomcat):
tomcat

Please enter your application server directory (../../tomcat-9.0.17):

Please enter your extra library directories (../../tomcat-9.0.17/bin):

Please enter your global library directory (../../tomcat-9.0.17/lib):

Please enter your portal directory (../../tomcat-9.0.17/webapps/ROOT):

[ db2 mariadb mysql oracle postgresql sqlserver sybase ]
Please enter your database (mysql):
mysql

Please enter your database host (localhost):

(etc.)
```

Once you enter the required information, the upgrade tool performs the data upgrade, and your instance is ready to be pushed back into DXP Cloud.

## Compress the Database and Document Library

Now that your Liferay installation has been upgraded, use the following steps to prepare to upload them again to your `backup` service:

1. Open a command prompt within your `LIFERAY_HOME/data` folder.

1. Run the following command to compress your document library into a `.tgz` archive:

    ```
    tar -czvf volume.tgz document_library
    ```

    ```important::
       If the data volume you downloaded contained more folders (such as a ``license/`` folder), then add these as additional arguments after ``document_library``.
    ```

1. Run the following command to perform a database dump:

    ```
    mysqldump -uroot -ppassword --databases --add-drop-database lportal | gzip -c | cat > database.gz
    ```

1. Further compress this file into a `.tgz` archive with the following command:

    ```bash
    tar zcvf database.tgz database.gz && rm database.gz
    ```

The database and Liferay data volume are now ready for you to upload them using the `backup` service's upload API.

## Call the Upload API

Upload the database and document library archives to the `backup` service by calling the upload API:

1. If you are not already logged in, log into the DXP Cloud console.

1. Open `https://api.liferay.cloud/user` in a browser.

1. Copy your user session token from the JSON string shown at this URL. Copy only the value for the `token` property (removing the quotation marks). 

1. Run the following command to call the upload API:

    ```bash
    curl -X POST https://backup-<PROJECT-NAME>-prd.lfr.cloud/backup/upload -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data' -H 'Authorization: Bearer <USER-TOKEN>' -F 'database=@/path/to/folder/database.tgz' -F 'volume=@/path/to/folder/volume.tgz'
    ```

When the call is complete, a new backup appears from your upload, on the _Backups_ page in the DXP Cloud console.

## Restore the Backup

Follow these steps to restore a backup to your chosen environment:

1. Log into the DXP Cloud console, if you are not already logged in.

1. Navigate to your production environment, then click _Backups_ from the side menu.

1. Choose a backup from the list, and then click Restore to from the Actions menu for that backup.

    ![Select Restore to... from the Actions menu for the uploaded backup.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/03.png)

1. Select one of your environments to restore to from the drop-down list (e.g., your `dev` environment).

    ![Select an environment to deploy the backup to.](./upgrading-your-liferay-dxp-instance-in-dxp-cloud/images/04.png)

1. Click _Restore to environment_.

    ```note::
       The chosen environment will be unavailable for some time while the the backup is being deployed.
    ```

Congratulations! You have upgraded your DXP database to the new version and deployed it to your chosen environment. You can also [restore the same backup](#restore-the-backup) again to other environments as needed.

## Additional Information

See the following information pertaining to general DXP upgrades:

* [Liferay DXP Upgrade Overview](https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/upgrade-overview.html)
* [Using the Database Upgrade Tool](https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-7.x/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-liferay-dxp/upgrade-basics/using-the-database-upgrade-tool.html)
