docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/README.rst, before:

Installation and Upgrades
==================================

Installing Liferay DXP
----------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/01-getting-started-with-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/02-installation-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/03-obtaining-liferay`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/04-connecting-a-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/05-using-the-setup-wizard`
-  `Using DXP Cloud <https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-cloud-latest/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.html>`__
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/08-activating-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/09-trial-plugin-installation`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/10-setting-up-marketplace`
* Using the Liferay Marketplace
* Installing Apps Manually

Installing Liferay on an Application Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/01-installing-liferay-on-an-application-server/01-installing-liferay-on-tomcat`
* Installing Liferay on WildFly
* Installing Liferay on JBoss
* Installing Liferay on WebLogic
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/01-installing-liferay-dxp/01-installing-liferay-on-an-application-server/05-installing-liferay-on-websphere`

Setting Up Liferay DXP
----------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/setting-up-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/mail-server-configuration-reference`
* Installing a Search Engine
* Selecting Your Locale and Encoding
* Using a Content Delivery Network
* Tuning your JVM
* Setting Up Remote Staging

Using Elasticsearch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using Solr
~~~~~~~~~~

Configuring the Document Library Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/document-repository-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-amazon-s3-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-advanced-file-system-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-dbstore`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-file-system-store`

Configuring Clustering for High Availability
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/01-introduction-to-clustering-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/02-database-configuration-for-cluster-nodes`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/03-documents-and-media-configuration-with-clustering`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/04-clustering-search`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/05-cluster-link-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/06-configuring-unicast-over-tcp`

Securing Liferay
----------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/01-securing-liferay`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/02-configuring-authentication`

Securing Web Services
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/01-securing-web-services`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/03-setting-service-access-policies`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/04-using-auth-verifiers`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/05-setting-up-cors`

Using an SSO with Liferay DXP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Token-Based Authentication
* Using OpenID Connect
* Using SAML
* Using OpenAM
* Using Kerberos
* Connecting to LDAP
* Using OAuth 2.0

Upgrading Liferay
-----------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/01-introduction-to-upgrading-to-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/02-upgrading-the-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/03-pruning-the-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/04-example-removing-intermediate-journal-article-versions`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/05-tuning-for-the-data-upgrade`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/06-preparing-a-new-application-server-for-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/07-configuring-the-data-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/08-using-the-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/09-upgrading-modules-using-gogo-shell`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/10-executing-post-upgrade-tasks`

Unique Upgrade Scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/97-upgrading-a-sharded-environment`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/98-deprecations-in-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/99-features-in-maintenance-mode`
* Migrating from Audience Targeting to Segmentation and Personalization

Maintaining a Liferay DXP Installation
--------------------------------------

* Installing Patches
* Backing Up

Maintaining Clusters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/10-maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/01-maintaining-clusters/01-maintaining-clustered-installations`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/10-maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/01-maintaining-clusters/02-rolling-restarts`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/10-maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/01-maintaining-clusters/03-blue-green-deployments`

Liferay Connected Services
--------------------------

* Introduction to Managing Liferay DXP with Liferay Connected Services
* Getting Started with LCS
* Preliminary LCS Configuration
* Registering Your Liferay DXP Server with LCS

Using LCS
~~~~~~~~~

* What LCS Stores About Your Liferay DXP Servers
* Managing LCS Users in Your Project
* Using the Dashboard
* Managing LCS Environments
* Managing LCS Servers
* Managing Your LCS Account
* Managing Liferay DXP Subscriptions
* Understanding Environment Tokens
* Troubleshooting Your LCS Connection

Troubleshooting Deployments
---------------------------

* Database Not Ready
* Switching Databases

Reference
---------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/01-liferay-home`
* Configuration Files
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/03-portal-properties`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/04-system-properties`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/05-jvm-configurations`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/05-database-templates`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/06-liferay-upgrade-planner-steps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/07-comparing-patch-levels`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/08-patching-tool-configuration-properties`

Commit message:

Rename to "Installing Liferay DXP on Premises" (installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises)

docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/README.rst, after:

Installation and Upgrades
==================================

Installing Liferay DXP
----------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/01-getting-started-with-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/02-installation-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/03-obtaining-liferay`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/04-connecting-a-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/05-using-the-setup-wizard`
-  `Using DXP Cloud <https://learn.liferay.com/dxp-cloud-latest/using-the-liferay-dxp-service/introduction-to-the-liferay-dxp-service.html>`__
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/08-activating-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/09-trial-plugin-installation`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/10-setting-up-marketplace`
* Using the Liferay Marketplace
* Installing Apps Manually

Installing Liferay on an Application Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/01-installing-liferay-on-an-application-server/01-installing-liferay-on-tomcat`
* Installing Liferay on WildFly
* Installing Liferay on JBoss
* Installing Liferay on WebLogic
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/01-installing-liferay-on-an-application-server/05-installing-liferay-on-websphere`

Setting Up Liferay DXP
----------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/setting-up-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/mail-server-configuration-reference`
* Installing a Search Engine
* Selecting Your Locale and Encoding
* Using a Content Delivery Network
* Tuning your JVM
* Setting Up Remote Staging

Using Elasticsearch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using Solr
~~~~~~~~~~

Configuring the Document Library Repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/document-repository-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-amazon-s3-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-advanced-file-system-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-dbstore`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-file-system-store`

Configuring Clustering for High Availability
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/01-introduction-to-clustering-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/02-database-configuration-for-cluster-nodes`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/03-documents-and-media-configuration-with-clustering`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/04-clustering-search`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/05-cluster-link-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/06-configuring-unicast-over-tcp`

Securing Liferay
----------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/01-securing-liferay`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/02-configuring-authentication`

Securing Web Services
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/01-securing-web-services`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/03-setting-service-access-policies`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/04-using-auth-verifiers`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/05-securing-liferay/04-securing-web-services/05-setting-up-cors`

Using an SSO with Liferay DXP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Token-Based Authentication
* Using OpenID Connect
* Using SAML
* Using OpenAM
* Using Kerberos
* Connecting to LDAP
* Using OAuth 2.0

Upgrading Liferay
-----------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/01-introduction-to-upgrading-to-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/02-upgrading-the-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/03-pruning-the-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/04-example-removing-intermediate-journal-article-versions`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/05-tuning-for-the-data-upgrade`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/06-preparing-a-new-application-server-for-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/07-configuring-the-data-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/08-using-the-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/09-upgrading-modules-using-gogo-shell`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/10-executing-post-upgrade-tasks`

Unique Upgrade Scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/97-upgrading-a-sharded-environment`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/98-deprecations-in-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/99-features-in-maintenance-mode`
* Migrating from Audience Targeting to Segmentation and Personalization

Maintaining a Liferay DXP Installation
--------------------------------------

* Installing Patches
* Backing Up

Maintaining Clusters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/10-maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/01-maintaining-clusters/01-maintaining-clustered-installations`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/10-maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/01-maintaining-clusters/02-rolling-restarts`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/10-maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/01-maintaining-clusters/03-blue-green-deployments`

Liferay Connected Services
--------------------------

* Introduction to Managing Liferay DXP with Liferay Connected Services
* Getting Started with LCS
* Preliminary LCS Configuration
* Registering Your Liferay DXP Server with LCS

Using LCS
~~~~~~~~~

* What LCS Stores About Your Liferay DXP Servers
* Managing LCS Users in Your Project
* Using the Dashboard
* Managing LCS Environments
* Managing LCS Servers
* Managing Your LCS Account
* Managing Liferay DXP Subscriptions
* Understanding Environment Tokens
* Troubleshooting Your LCS Connection

Troubleshooting Deployments
---------------------------

* Database Not Ready
* Switching Databases

Reference
---------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/01-liferay-home`
* Configuration Files
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/03-portal-properties`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/04-system-properties`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/05-jvm-configurations`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/05-database-templates`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/06-liferay-upgrade-planner-steps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/07-comparing-patch-levels`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/14-reference/08-patching-tool-configuration-properties`
