docs/dxp/7.2.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/performance-and-scalability/configuring-clustering/04-clustering-search.md, before:

# Clustering Search

Search should always run on a separate environment from your Liferay DXP server. DXP supports [Elasticsearch](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360028711132-Installing-Elasticsearch), 

<!--Uncomment when Solr adapters is available. 
or 
Solr 
and either of those environments
-->

which can also be clustered.

For more information on how to cluster Elasticsearch, see [Elasticsearch's distributed cluster setup](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/distributed-cluster.html).

Once DXP servers and Elasticsearch have both been properly configured as a cluster, change your DXP instance from *embedded* mode to *remote* mode. On the first connection, the two sets of clustered servers communicate with each other the list of all IP addresses; in case of a node going down, the proper failover protocols enable. Queries and indexes can continue to be sent for all nodes.

<!-- Uncomment when Solr adapter is available. 
For more information on how to cluster Solr, see 
[Apache Solr Cloud](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/SolrCloud)
documentation. 

Once @product@ servers have been properly configured as a cluster, deploy the
Liferay Solr 5 Adapter on all nodes. (This app is available for download from
Liferay Marketplace
[here](https://web.liferay.com/marketplace/-/mp/application/78803899).) Create a
Solr Cloud (cluster) managed by _Apache Solr Zookeeper_. Connect the @product@
cluster to Zookeeper and finish the final configurations to connect the two
clusters.
-->

Commit message:

Clustering search article: uncomment Solr-specific info, reorganize into sections, wordsmithing

docs/dxp/7.2.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/performance-and-scalability/configuring-clustering/04-clustering-search.md, after:

# Clustering Search

Search should always run on a separate environment from your Liferay DXP server. DXP supports [Elasticsearch](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360028711132-Installing-Elasticsearch) and [Solr](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360032264052-Installing-Solr), and either of these search engines can also be clustered.

## Clustering Elasticsearch

For more information on how to cluster Elasticsearch, see [Elasticsearch's distributed cluster setup](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/distributed-cluster.html).

Once DXP servers and Elasticsearch have both been properly configured as a cluster, change your DXP instance from *embedded* mode to *remote* mode. On the first connection, the two sets of clustered servers communicate with each other the list of all IP addresses; in case of a node going down, the proper failover protocols activate. Queries and indexes can continue to be sent for all nodes.

## Clustering Solr

For more information on how to cluster Solr, see [Apache Solr Cloud](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/SolrCloud) documentation. 

Once DXP servers have been properly configured as a cluster, deploy the Liferay Solr 5 Connector on all nodes. The app is available for download from Liferay Marketplace [here](https://web.liferay.com/marketplace/-/mp/application/117931595).

Create a Solr Cloud (cluster) managed by _Apache Solr Zookeeper_. Connect the DXP cluster to Zookeeper and finish the final configurations to connect the two clusters.
