docs/dxp/7.x/en/site-building/creating-pages/building-and-managing-content-pages/building-content-pages.md, before:

# Building Content Pages

Once you've [added a Content Page](../adding-pages/adding-a-page-to-a-site.md) you may begin building your page by adding and configuring the various [Content Page elements](./content-pages-overview.md).

## Adding Elements to a Content Page

To begin building a Content Page:

1. Enter the Site Builder view for your Content Page. Open the Product Menu and go to *Site Builder* &rarr; *Pages* under your Site's Menu.

    ![Begin by editing your new Content Page in the Site Builder menu.](building-content-pages/images/01.png)

    ![A Content Page is blank to begin with. You must add Fragments to it to build it.](./building-content-pages/images/02.png)

    ```note::
       New Content Pages start empty and in a *Draft* status. The page is not visible until it is published.
    ```

1. Open the Content Page sidebar and begin adding Page Fragment elements.

    ![Add Fragments to the page to create the mockup you want.](./building-content-pages/images/03.png)

1. Configure the editable portions of the Page Fragments to customize the look of your Content Page. Elements can be configured in some of the following ways:

    * [Setting a Background Color](#setting-a-background-color)
    * [Using a Background Image](#using-a-background-image)
    * [Editing Text](#editing-text)
    * [Editing a Hyperlink](#editing-a-hyperlink)
    * [Copying a Fragment](#copying-a-fragment)
    * [Adjusting Spacing](#adjusting-spacing)
    * [General Configuration](#general-configuration)
    * [Mapping Content](#mapping-content)

    ![Modify the Fragments to display the content you want.](./building-content-pages/images/04.png)

    ```tip::
       In progress work on a Content Page is automatically saved.
    ```

1. Click the *Publish* button in the top right to make the updates available to the live page.

## Configuring Elements on a Content Page

Many elements that can be added to a content page can be configured and customized. Clicking on an element provides a management toolbar with access to available configurations for the selected element.

### Setting a Background Color

You can set the background color of a Layout. Follow these steps:

1. Click the Layout to select it.
1. Click the (![Background Color](../../../images/icon-color.png)) icon to select a color.

![You can set the background color of a Layout.](./building-content-pages/images/05.png)

```note::
   The available color palette can be configured by the Fragment developer. See Fragment Configuration Types for more information.
```

### Using a Background Image

You can configure a background image for a Layout. Follow these steps:

1. Click on the Layout to select it.
1. Select *Layout Background Image*, and choose the image to display.

    ![Layouts have options for background color, background image, and spacing.](./building-content-pages/images/06.png)

    ```note::
       Mapping a Layout background image is available in Liferay DXP 7.2 SP1+ and Liferay Portal 7.2 GA2+.
    ```

### Editing Text

1. Click on the text that you want to edit.
1. Replace the text if Plain text or use the inline text editor to update the Rich text styles, typographical emphasis, alignment, and list formatting.

![You can modify editable text.](./building-content-pages/images/07.png)

### Editing a Hyperlink

1. Click on the link or button that you want to edit.
1. Click on (![Edit](../../../images/icon-edit.png)) to edit the link text, (![Link](../../../images/icon-link.png)) to edit the link properties, or (![Map](../../../images/icon-map.png)) to edit the link mapping (described earlier).

    From the Link Properties popup, you can define these link options:

    *Manual:* defines a manual link or maps it to an existing content field

    * *URL:* set the link's URL
    * *Target:* set the link's behavior

    *From Content Field:*

    * *Content:* set the content type
    * *Field:* set the field to display for the selected content

    A list of some of the available content fields is shown below:

    * Categories
    * Tags
    * Display Page URL
    * Description
    * Publish Date
    * Summary
    * Title
    * Last Editor Name
    * Author Name
    * Basic Web Content

![You can modify editable links.](./building-content-pages/images/08.png)

### Copying a Fragment

You can duplicate a Fragment on the page to save time. Follow these steps:

1. Hover over the Fragment you want to copy.
1. Click the Fragment to select it.
1. Click the Duplicate Fragment button in the context menu that appears.

![You can duplicate Fragments on the page.](./building-content-pages/images/09.png)

### Adjusting Spacing

If a [Layout](./content-pages-overview.md#layouts) has multiple columns, you can adjust the spacing between the columns to create a custom layout. Follow these steps:

1. Click on the Layout to select it. A blue dot appears between each of the columns, indicating that they can be resized.
1. Click one of the blue dots and drag to the left or right to adjust the size of the column.

![You can adjust the spacing of columns in a Layout to create a custom Layout.](./building-content-pages/images/10.png)

```note::
   Layouts must contain the same number of columns. You can't remove a column by dragging it. Choose a Layout that has the number of columns you want, then readjust the sizing if you need to.
```

### General Configuration

Available for some out-of-the-box fragments. This menu option presents context specific fragment configurations. For a reference on these configurations, see Basic Component Configuration Reference.

### Mapping Content

You can also map these elements to content. You can set the *Content* for the element (web content article, document, or blog) and choose its applicable *Field* to display (e.g., title, author name, tags, etc.). You can configure this by selecting the element's *Map* button (![Map](../../../images/icon-map.png)).

```note::
   Many mapping improvements were released in Liferay DXP 7.2 SP1+ and Liferay Portal 7.2 GA2+. For example, mapping editable elements to text/URL fields of existing content and mapping Fragment background images to image fields of existing content. You can also map custom fields.
```

When you create Content Pages, you can create different **Experiences** for users based on User Segments. You can create a unique Experience on any Content Page for any existing User Segment. For more information, see the [Content Page Personalization guide](../personalizing-site-experience/experience-personalization/content-page-personalization.md).

## Additional Information

* Developing a Page Fragment
* [Using Master Pages](../defining-headers-and-footers/master-page-templates.md)
* [Changing Content Pages Look and Feel](./content-pages-overview.md#look-and-feel)

Commit message:

Add Editing an Image sub-section and update images

docs/dxp/7.x/en/site-building/creating-pages/building-and-managing-content-pages/building-content-pages.md, after:

# Building Content Pages

Once you've [added a Content Page](../adding-pages/adding-a-page-to-a-site.md) you may begin building your page by adding and configuring the various [Content Page elements](./content-pages-overview.md).

## Adding Elements to a Content Page

To begin building a Content Page:

1. Enter the Site Builder view for your Content Page. Open the Product Menu and go to *Site Builder* &rarr; *Pages* under your Site's Menu.

    ![Begin by editing your new Content Page in the Site Builder menu.](building-content-pages/images/01.png)

    ![A Content Page is blank to begin with. You must add Fragments to it to build it.](./building-content-pages/images/02.png)

    ```note::
       New Content Pages start empty and in a *Draft* status. The page is not visible until it is published.
    ```

1. Open the Content Page sidebar and begin adding Page Fragment elements.

    ![Add Fragments to the page to create the mockup you want.](./building-content-pages/images/03.png)

1. Configure the editable portions of the Page Fragments to customize the look of your Content Page. Elements can be configured in some of the following ways:

    * [Setting a Background Color](#setting-a-background-color)
    * [Using a Background Image](#using-a-background-image)
    * [Editing Text](#editing-text)
    * [Editing a Hyperlink](#editing-a-hyperlink)
    * [Editing an Image](#editing-an-image)
    * [Copying a Fragment](#copying-a-fragment)
    * [Adjusting Spacing](#adjusting-spacing)
    * [General Configuration](#general-configuration)
    * [Mapping Content](#mapping-content)

    ![Modify the Fragments to display the content you want.](./building-content-pages/images/04.png)

    ```tip::
       In progress work on a Content Page is automatically saved.
    ```

1. Click the *Publish* button in the top right to make the updates available to the live page.

## Configuring Elements on a Content Page

Many elements that can be added to a content page can be configured and customized. Clicking on an element provides a management toolbar with access to available configurations for the selected element.

### Setting a Background Color

You can set the background color of a Layout. Follow these steps:

1. Click the Layout to select it.
1. Click the (![Background Color](../../../images/icon-color.png)) icon to select a color.

![You can set the background color of a Layout.](./building-content-pages/images/05.png)

```note::
   The available color palette can be configured by the Fragment developer. See Fragment Configuration Types for more information.
```

### Using a Background Image

You can configure a background image for a Layout. Follow these steps:

1. Click on the Layout to select it.
1. Select *Layout Background Image*, and choose the image to display.

    ![Layouts have options for background color, background image, and spacing.](./building-content-pages/images/06.png)

    ```note::
       Mapping a Layout background image is available in Liferay DXP 7.2 SP1+ and Liferay Portal 7.2 GA2+.
    ```

### Editing Text

1. Click on the text that you want to edit.
1. Replace the text if Plain text or use the inline text editor to update the Rich text styles, typographical emphasis, alignment, and list formatting.

![You can modify editable text.](./building-content-pages/images/07.png)

### Editing a Hyperlink

1. Click on the link, button, or image that you want to edit.
1. Click on (![Edit](../../../images/icon-edit.png)) to edit the link text, (![Link](../../../images/icon-link.png)) to edit the link properties, or (![Map](../../../images/icon-map.png)) to edit the link mapping (described earlier).

    From the Link Properties popup, you can define these link options:

    *Manual:* defines a manual link or maps it to an existing content field

    * *URL:* set the link's URL
    * *Target:* set the link's behavior

    *From Content Field:*

    * *Content:* set the content type
    * *Field:* set the field to display for the selected content

    A list of some of the available content fields is shown below:

    * Categories
    * Tags
    * Display Page URL
    * Description
    * Publish Date
    * Summary
    * Title
    * Last Editor Name
    * Author Name
    * Basic Web Content

![You can modify editable links.](./building-content-pages/images/08.png)

### Editing an Image

1.  Click on the image you want to replace.
1.  Click the (![Image Properties](../../../images/icon-edit.png)) icon.

    ![Editing an image allows you to enter a URL, select an image from Documents and Media or set a link for the image.](../building-content-pages/images/09.png)

1. Click *Select* to upload an image from Docs and Media or define an image URL. Click *Clear* to reset the image. You can also specify an
image description.

You can also [specify a background image for a layout](#using-a-background-image) and [provide a link for your image](#editing-a-hyperlink).

### Copying a Fragment

You can duplicate a Fragment on the page to save time. Follow these steps:

1. Hover over the Fragment you want to copy.
1. Click the Fragment to select it.
1. Click the Duplicate Fragment button in the context menu that appears.

![You can duplicate Fragments on the page.](./building-content-pages/images/09.png)

### Adjusting Spacing

If a [Layout](./content-pages-overview.md#layouts) has multiple columns, you can adjust the spacing between the columns to create a custom layout. Follow these steps:

1. Click on the Layout to select it. A blue dot appears between each of the columns, indicating that they can be resized.
1. Click one of the blue dots and drag to the left or right to adjust the size of the column.

![You can adjust the spacing of columns in a Layout to create a custom Layout.](./building-content-pages/images/10.png)

```note::
   Layouts must contain the same number of columns. You can't remove a column by dragging it. Choose a Layout that has the number of columns you want, then readjust the sizing if you need to.
```

### General Configuration

Available for some out-of-the-box fragments. This menu option presents context specific fragment configurations. For a reference on these configurations, see Basic Component Configuration Reference.

### Mapping Content

You can also map these elements to content. You can set the *Content* for the element (web content article, document, or blog) and choose its applicable *Field* to display (e.g., title, author name, tags, etc.). You can configure this by selecting the element's *Map* button (![Map](../../../images/icon-map.png)).

```note::
   Many mapping improvements were released in Liferay DXP 7.2 SP1+ and Liferay Portal 7.2 GA2+. For example, mapping editable elements to text/URL fields of existing content and mapping Fragment background images to image fields of existing content. You can also map custom fields.
```

When you create Content Pages, you can create different **Experiences** for users based on User Segments. You can create a unique Experience on any Content Page for any existing User Segment. For more information, see the [Content Page Personalization guide](../../personalizing-site-experience/README.md).

## Additional Information

* Developing a Page Fragment
* [Using Master Pages](../defining-headers-and-footers/master-page-templates.md)
* [Changing Content Pages Look and Feel](./content-pages-overview.md#look-and-feel)
