docs/commerce/2.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/installation-guide/installation-overview.md, before:

# Installation Overview

The article details prerequisites, information about required software, installation and deployment, and how to maintain Liferay Commerce.

Liferay Commerce is built on Liferay DXP 7.1. Therefore, it is necessary to install Liferay Digital Experience Platform first before installing Liferay Commerce.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, consult the systems requirements and the Liferay DXP deployment documentation.

### System Requirements

See the [Liferay Commerce 2.0 Compatibility Matrix](https://web.liferay.com/documents/14/21598941/Liferay+Commerce+2.0+Compatibility+Matrix/0ed97477-f5a7-40a6-b5ab-f00d5e01b75f) to view the list of supported technologies.

### Liferay DXP Deployment Checklist

See the [Liferay Digital Experience Platform 7.1 Deployment Checklist](https://www.liferay.com/documents/10182/3292406/Liferay+DXP+7.1+Deployment+Checklist/cacaac23-9e02-411a-dcc9-adf86f95c513) for information about Liferay DXP architecture and performance tuning guidelines.

## Installing Liferay Commerce

Liferay offers several methods of installing Liferay Commerce.

### Using a Bundle

The latest version of Liferay Commerce (Open Source) is available for download as a bundle from the [Liferay Commerce Community Download](https://commerce.liferay.dev/download) page. See [Using the Liferay Commerce Tomcat Bundle](./using-the-liferay-commerce-tomcat-bundle.md) for more information.

### Using an Existing Liferay DXP Installation

If using an existing Liferay DXP installation, users may deploy Liferay Commerce using the `LPKG`. See [Deploying Liferay Commerce to an Existing Installation](./deploying-liferay-commerce-to-an-existing-liferay-installation.md) for more information.

### Activating Commerce Enterprise

Subscribers who have purchased Liferay Commerce are required to activate the product. See [Activating Liferay Commerce Enterprise](./activating-liferay-commerce-enterprise.md)

## Maintaining Liferay Commerce

### Upgrades and Updates

There are periodic updates and upgrades that contain the latest features and bug fixes.

* [Maintenance Versions](../../get-help/commerce-enterprise-support/liferay-commerce-fix-delivery-method.md)
* [Upgrading from Liferay Commerce 1.1.x](../upgrades-and-updates/upgrading-from-liferay-commerce-1.1.x.md)

## Additional Information

* [Liferay Digital Experience Platform Performance](https://www.liferay.com/documents/10182/3292406/Liferay+DXP+Performance+-+Benchmark+Study+of+Liferay+DXP+7.1/fe7d4cd2-2efc-b5cc-9680-825ec9bad5be)
* [Deploying Liferay DXP Using Docker](https://www.liferay.com/documents/10182/1645493/Deploying%20Liferay%20DXP%20Using%20Docker)
* [Activating a Marketplace App Through a Proxy Server](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360018427391)

Commit message:

Reorganize Installation & Upgrades section for Commerce (Overview better landing page than Quick Start Guide)

docs/commerce/2.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/installation-guide/installation-overview.md, after:

# Installation Overview

The article details prerequisites, information about required software, installation and deployment, and how to maintain Liferay Commerce. For a guide to getting started with installation, see [Quick Start Guide](../quick-start-guide/quick-start-guide.md).

Liferay Commerce is built on Liferay DXP 7.1. Therefore, it is necessary to install Liferay Digital Experience Platform first before installing Liferay Commerce.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, consult the systems requirements and the Liferay DXP deployment documentation.

### System Requirements

See the [Liferay Commerce 2.0 Compatibility Matrix](https://web.liferay.com/documents/14/21598941/Liferay+Commerce+2.0+Compatibility+Matrix/0ed97477-f5a7-40a6-b5ab-f00d5e01b75f) to view the list of supported technologies.

### Liferay DXP Deployment Checklist

See the [Liferay Digital Experience Platform 7.1 Deployment Checklist](https://www.liferay.com/documents/10182/3292406/Liferay+DXP+7.1+Deployment+Checklist/cacaac23-9e02-411a-dcc9-adf86f95c513) for information about Liferay DXP architecture and performance tuning guidelines.

## Installing Liferay Commerce

Liferay offers several methods of installing Liferay Commerce.

### Using a Bundle

The latest version of Liferay Commerce (Open Source) is available for download as a bundle from the [Liferay Commerce Community Download](https://commerce.liferay.dev/download) page. See [Using the Liferay Commerce Tomcat Bundle](./using-the-liferay-commerce-tomcat-bundle.md) for more information.

### Using an Existing Liferay DXP Installation

If using an existing Liferay DXP installation, users may deploy Liferay Commerce using the `LPKG`. See [Deploying Liferay Commerce to an Existing Installation](./deploying-liferay-commerce-to-an-existing-liferay-installation.md) for more information.

### Activating Commerce Enterprise

Subscribers who have purchased Liferay Commerce are required to activate the product. See [Activating Liferay Commerce Enterprise](./activating-liferay-commerce-enterprise.md)

## Maintaining Liferay Commerce

### Upgrades and Updates

There are periodic updates and upgrades that contain the latest features and bug fixes.

* [Maintenance Versions](../../get-help/commerce-enterprise-support/liferay-commerce-fix-delivery-method.md)
* [Upgrading from Liferay Commerce 1.1.x](../upgrades-and-updates/upgrading-from-liferay-commerce-1.1.x.md)

## Additional Information

* [Liferay Digital Experience Platform Performance](https://www.liferay.com/documents/10182/3292406/Liferay+DXP+Performance+-+Benchmark+Study+of+Liferay+DXP+7.1/fe7d4cd2-2efc-b5cc-9680-825ec9bad5be)
* [Deploying Liferay DXP Using Docker](https://www.liferay.com/documents/10182/1645493/Deploying%20Liferay%20DXP%20Using%20Docker)
* [Activating a Marketplace App Through a Proxy Server](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360018427391)
