docs/commerce/2.x/en/managing-a-catalog/managing-price/adding-products-to-a-price-list.md, before:

# Adding Products to a Price List

Once you have a [price list](./creating-a-price-list.md) created, you can add products to it. This article describes two ways to add products to a price list. Prices that are set via a Price List will take precedence over prices set directly against a given SKU for the associated users.

## Adding Products to a Price List Through the Price Lists Menu

When adding a large number of existing products to a new price list, populate the price list quickly using the following method:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Price Lists_.
1. Click on a price list (_VIP Customers_ in this example).
1. Click the _Entries_ sub-tab.
1. Click the (+) button.
1. Choose one or more products (_Premium Brake Fluid_ and _Premium Brake Pads_ in this example) to be added to the price list.
1. Click _Add_.
1. Click on a product (_Premium Brake Fluid_ in this example).
1. Enter the following fields:
    * **Price**: 100
    * **Promo Price**: 95

        ![Adding a product to a price list](./adding-products-to-a-price-list/images/01.png)

1. Click _Save_.

The product is now added to the price list. Repeat as necessary.

## Adding Products to a Price List Through the Products Menu

When creating a new product, you can easily add it to an existing price list using this method:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Products_.
1. Click on a product (_Premium Brake Fluid_ in this example).
1. Click the _SKUs_ sub-tab.
1. Click on a SKU (_MIN93017_)
1. Click _Price Lists_.
1. Click the (+) button.
1. Choose one or more price lists (_VIP Customers_ in this example) to which this SKU will be added.
1. Click _Add_.
1. Click on a price list (_VIP Customers_ in this example).
1. Enter the following fields (example values shown below):
    * **Price**: 100
    * **Promo Price**: 95

    ![Adding a product to a price list](./adding-products-to-a-price-list/images/01.png)

1. Click Save.

The product (_Premium Brake Fluid_) is now added to the price list (_VIP Customers_). Repeat the steps to add additional products to this price list or another list.

## Additional Information

* [Creating a Price List](./creating-a-price-list.md)
* [Adding Tiered Pricing](./adding-tiered-pricing.md)

Commit message:

Updating images for Products and Promos

docs/commerce/2.x/en/managing-a-catalog/managing-price/adding-products-to-a-price-list.md, after:

# Adding Products to a Price List

Once you have a [price list](./creating-a-price-list.md) created, you can add products to it. This article describes two ways to add products to a price list. Prices that are set via a Price List will take precedence over prices set directly against a given SKU for the associated users.

## Adding Products to a Price List Through the Price Lists Menu

When adding a large number of existing products to a new price list, populate the price list quickly using the following method:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Price Lists_.
1. Click on a price list (_VIP Customers_ in this example).
1. Click the _Entries_ sub-tab.
1. Click the (+) button.
1. Choose one or more products (_Premium Brake Fluid_ and _Premium Brake Pads_ in this example) to be added to the price list.
1. Click _Add_.
1. Click on a product (_Premium Brake Fluid_ in this example).
1. Enter the following fields:
    * **Price**: 100
    * **Promo Price**: 95

        ![Adding a product to a price list](./adding-products-to-a-price-list/images/01.png)

1. Click _Save_.

The product is now added to the price list. Repeat as necessary.

## Adding Products to a Price List Through the Products Menu

When creating a new product, you can easily add it to an existing price list using this method:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Products_.
1. Click on a product (_Premium Brake Fluid_ in this example).
1. Click the _SKUs_ tab.
1. Click on a SKU (_MIN93017_)
1. Click _Price Lists_.

    ![Adding Products to a Price List in 2.1](./adding-products-to-a-price-list/images/02.png)

1. Click the Add (![Add icon](../../images/icon-add.png)) button.
1. Choose one or more price lists (_VIP Customers_ in this example) to which this SKU will be added.
1. Click _Add_.

The price list is now associated with the product.

![Adding Products to a Price List in 2.1](./adding-products-to-a-price-list/images/03.png)

### Commerce 2.0 and Below

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Products_.
1. Click on a product (_Premium Brake Fluid_ in this example).
1. Click the _SKUs_ sub-tab.
1. Click on a SKU (_MIN93017_)
1. Click _Price Lists_.
1. Click the Add (![Add icon](../../images/icon-add.png)) button.
1. Choose one or more price lists (_VIP Customers_ in this example) to which this SKU will be added.
1. Click _Add_.
1. Click on a price list (_VIP Customers_ in this example).
1. Enter the following fields (example values shown below):
    * **Price**: 100
    * **Promo Price**: 95

    ![Adding a product to a price list](./adding-products-to-a-price-list/images/01.png)

1. Click Save.

The product (_Premium Brake Fluid_) is now added to the price list (_VIP Customers_). Repeat the steps to add additional products to this price list or another list.

## Additional Information

* [Creating a Price List](./creating-a-price-list.md)
* [Adding Tiered Pricing](./adding-tiered-pricing.md)
