docs/commerce/2.x/en/managing-a-catalog/managing-price/setting-a-products-base-price.md, before:

# Setting a Product's Base Price

Each product SKU must have at a set base price. To assign one price to one SKU:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Products_.
1. Click on a product (_Torque Converters_ in this example).
1. Click the _SKUs_ sub-tab.
1. Click on a SKU (_MIN55859_ in this example).
1. Click _Pricing_.
1. Enter the following fields (example values shown below):
    * **Price**: 34.00
    * **Promo Price**: (leave it blank) (If you enter this field, then both the price above and promo price will appear on the product page so that buyers can see the markdown.)
    * **Cost**: 20.00

    ![Setting a product's base price](./setting-a-products-base-price/images/01.png)

1. Click Save.

This product SKU’s base price, promo price (optional), and cost (optional) have been set. The _Cost_ field corresponds to your cost for this SKU which can help you track margins.

## Additional Information

**Note 1**: To modify the price of a product SKU, you can use promo prices, price lists and discounts.

* [Creating a Price List](./creating-a-price-list.md)
* [Adding Discounts by Product](../../promoting-products/adding-discounts-by-product.md)

Commit message:

Updating images for Products and Promos

docs/commerce/2.x/en/managing-a-catalog/managing-price/setting-a-products-base-price.md, after:

# Setting a Product's Base Price

Each product SKU must have at a set base price. To assign one price to one SKU:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Products_.
1. Click on a product (_Torque Converters_ in this example).
1. Click the _SKUs_ tab.
1. Click on a SKU (_MIN55859_ in this example).
1. On the _Details_ tab, enter the following in the Pricing section:
    * **Price**: 34
    * **Promo Price**: (leave it blank) (If you enter this field, then both the price above and promo price will appear on the product page so that buyers can see the markdown.)
    * **Cost**: 20

    ![Setting a product's base price in 2.1](./setting-a-products-base-price/images/02.png)

1. Click _Publish_.

## Commerce 2.0 and Below

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Products_.
1. Click on a product (_Torque Converters_ in this example).
1. Click the _SKUs_ sub-tab.
1. Click on a SKU (_MIN55859_ in this example).
1. Click _Pricing_.
1. Enter the following fields (example values shown below):
    * **Price**: 34.00
    * **Promo Price**: (leave it blank) (If you enter this field, then both the price above and promo price will appear on the product page so that buyers can see the markdown.)
    * **Cost**: 20.00

    ![Setting a product's base price](./setting-a-products-base-price/images/01.png)

1. Click Save.

This product SKU’s base price, promo price (optional), and cost (optional) have been set. The _Cost_ field corresponds to your cost for this SKU which can help you track margins.

## Additional Information

**Note 1**: To modify the price of a product SKU, you can use promo prices, price lists and discounts.

* [Creating a Price List](./creating-a-price-list.md)
* [Adding Discounts by Product](../../promoting-products/adding-discounts-by-product.md)
