docs/dxp-cloud/latest/en/getting-started/configuring-your-bitbucket-repository.md, before:

# Configuring Your Bitbucket Repository

Upon receiving a DXP Cloud onboarding email, you're provisioned a GitHub repository hosted in the `dxpcloud` organization. This repository should be used as a template for a team's separate private DXP Cloud development repository and is typically removed after 10 business days. Users are expected to:

1. Transfer the initial provisioned repository to their own private repository.
1. Integrate that repository with the Jenkins (CI) service in DXP Cloud using a Webhook.

The provisioned repository will be on GitHub, but you can transfer it to a BitBucket repository as of version 3.2.0 of the Jenkins service.

## Preparing the Jenkins service

Before you start, check the `LCP.json` for your `ci` service, and make sure that you're running the following Jenkins service or higher:

```
liferaycloud/jenkins:2.222.1-3.2.0
```

If not, then follow these steps to upgrade:

1. Update the Jenkins service to version `liferaycloud/jenkins:2.222.1-3.2.0`.

1. Delete the `Jenkinsfile` located on the root folder.

1. Add the following environment variable: `LCP_CI_USE_DEFAULT_JENKINSFILE: true`.

1. Deploy the Jenkins service.

```note::
    If you've customized your Jenkinsfile, follow this guide to `extend the Default Jenkinsfile <../platform-services/continuous-integration.md#extending-the-default-jenkinsfile>`__.
```

## Creating a Bitbucket Repository

First, create a new Bitbucket repository.

1. Go to [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org).

1. Click the "+" icon in the sidebar under the search icon.

    ![Click the + icon to begin creating a new BitBucket repository.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/01.png)

1. Click _Repository_ to start creating a new repository.

    ![Fill in the details for your new repository.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/02.png)

1. Provide a name for the repository.

1. Ensure the access level is set to private.

1. Set _Include a README?_ to _No_.

1. Click _Create repository_.

## Transferring from GitHub to Bitbucket

Follow these steps to transfer the initial GitHub repository to your own Bitbucket repository:

1. Clone your initial GitHub repository locally:

    ```git clone git@github.com:dxpcloud/example.git```

    ```note::
       If you have already cloned the repository for work with another provider, then you can skip this step and work within the same clone.
    ```

1. Add a new Git remote and point to Bitbucket:

    ```git remote add bitbucket git@bitbucket.org:example/example.git```

1. Push the cloned repository to the new remote repository:

    ```git push bitbucket master```

If you need help creating, cloning, and pushing repositories, see [Bitbucket's documentation](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/create-a-git-repository-759857290.html).

## Generating App Password for BitBucket

Next, create an access token that will be used by the Webhook to trigger Jenkins builds:

1. From your user settings page, under _Access Management_ click _App passwords_.

    ![Click App passwords under the user settings page.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/03.png)

1. Click _Create app password_.

    ![Generate a new app password, which cannot be accessed again later.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/04.png)

1. Provide a label for the app password.

1. Grant the app the following permissions:

    * `Pull request - read, write` (this should also flag Repositories - read, write)
    * `Webhooks -  read, write`

1. Click _Create_.

1. Copy the app password (you won't see it again otherwise). This is BitBucket's equivalent of a personal access token.

## Connecting BitBucket to Your Jenkins service

Lastly, set environment variables in the Jenkins service's to point to your new repository:

1. Log in to the DXP Cloud console and navigate to your Jenkins service in the `infra` environment.

1. Navigate to the _Environment Variables_ tab.

1. Configure the following environment variables:

| Name | Value |
| ---  | ---   |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_PROVIDER` | bitbucket  |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_REPOSITORY_OWNER` | [repo_owner] |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_REPOSITORY_NAME` | [repo_name] |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_TOKEN` | [app_password] |

After updating these environment variables, the Jenkins service will restart. Any pushed branches and pull requests in your new repository should now trigger.

## Verifying Builds

Pushed branches and pull requests should trigger builds that you can see or deploy from the _Builds_ tab in the DXP Cloud console. After setting up integration with the Jenkins service, a good next step to verify these builds, to ensure that the integration was successful.

### Verifying Builds from Pushed Branches

To confirm that new Git pushes are triggering Jenkins builds:

1. Make a change to the repository (like adding a file), then commit it to the branch:

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Add file to test builds"
    ```

1. Push the branch up to BitBucket:

    ```bash
    git push bitbucket branch-name
    ```

1. Navigate to the _Builds_ page in the DXP Cloud console.

1. Verify that the build displays for the pushed branch on the _Builds_ page.

### Verifying Builds from Pull Requests

To confirm that new pull requests are triggering Jenkins builds:

1. Create a pull request from the any branch to the `develop` branch.

1. Verify that a new build is created for the pull request.

1. Navigate to the _Builds_ page in the DXP Cloud console.

1. Click the links for the branch and commit in the appropriate build.

    ![Check the links for the branch and commit for your build, on the Builds page.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/05.png)

1. Verify that the links redirect to the correct BitBucket pages.

## Additional Information

* [Configuring Your GitHub Repository](./configuring-your-github-repository.md)
* [Configuring Your GitLab Repository](./configuring-your-gitlab-repository.md)

Commit message:

Update Bitbucket configuration article to reflect new variable necessary for authentication

docs/dxp-cloud/latest/en/getting-started/configuring-your-bitbucket-repository.md, after:

# Configuring Your Bitbucket Repository

Upon receiving a DXP Cloud onboarding email, you're provisioned a GitHub repository hosted in the `dxpcloud` organization. This repository should be used as a template for a team's separate private DXP Cloud development repository and is typically removed after 10 business days. Users are expected to:

1. Transfer the initial provisioned repository to their own private repository.
1. Integrate that repository with the Jenkins (CI) service in DXP Cloud using a Webhook.

The provisioned repository will be on GitHub, but you can transfer it to a BitBucket repository as of version 3.2.0 of the Jenkins service.

## Preparing the Jenkins service

Before you start, check the `LCP.json` for your `ci` service, and make sure that you're running the following Jenkins service or higher:

```
liferaycloud/jenkins:2.222.1-3.2.0
```

If not, then follow these steps to upgrade:

1. Update the Jenkins service to version `liferaycloud/jenkins:2.222.1-3.2.0`.

1. Delete the `Jenkinsfile` located on the root folder.

1. Add the following environment variable: `LCP_CI_USE_DEFAULT_JENKINSFILE: true`.

1. Deploy the Jenkins service.

```note::
    If you've customized your Jenkinsfile, follow this guide to `extend the Default Jenkinsfile <../platform-services/continuous-integration.md#extending-the-default-jenkinsfile>`__.
```

## Creating a Bitbucket Repository

First, create a new Bitbucket repository.

1. Go to [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org).

1. Click the "+" icon in the sidebar under the search icon.

    ![Click the + icon to begin creating a new BitBucket repository.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/01.png)

1. Click _Repository_ to start creating a new repository.

    ![Fill in the details for your new repository.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/02.png)

1. Provide a name for the repository.

1. Ensure the access level is set to private.

1. Set _Include a README?_ to _No_.

1. Click _Create repository_.

## Transferring from GitHub to Bitbucket

Follow these steps to transfer the initial GitHub repository to your own Bitbucket repository:

1. Clone your initial GitHub repository locally:

    ```git clone git@github.com:dxpcloud/example.git```

    ```note::
       If you have already cloned the repository for work with another provider, then you can skip this step and work within the same clone.
    ```

1. Add a new Git remote and point to Bitbucket:

    ```git remote add bitbucket git@bitbucket.org:example/example.git```

1. Push the cloned repository to the new remote repository:

    ```git push bitbucket master```

If you need help creating, cloning, and pushing repositories, see [Bitbucket's documentation](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/create-a-git-repository-759857290.html).

## Generating App Password for BitBucket

Next, create an access token that will be used by the Webhook to trigger Jenkins builds:

1. From your user settings page, under _Access Management_ click _App passwords_.

    ![Click App passwords under the user settings page.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/03.png)

1. Click _Create app password_.

    ![Generate a new app password, which cannot be accessed again later.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/04.png)

1. Provide a label for the app password.

1. Grant the app the following permissions:

    * `Pull request - read, write` (this should also flag Repositories - read, write)
    * `Webhooks -  read, write`

1. Click _Create_.

1. Copy the app password (you won't see it again otherwise). This is BitBucket's equivalent of a personal access token.

```important::
   The user that generated the app password must use their username for the ``LCP_CI_SCM_USERNAME`` environment variable.
```

## Connecting BitBucket to Your Jenkins service

Lastly, set environment variables in the Jenkins service's to point to your new repository:

1. Log in to the DXP Cloud console and navigate to your Jenkins service in the `infra` environment.

1. Navigate to the _Environment Variables_ tab.

1. Configure the following environment variables (defining `LCP_CI_SCM_USERNAME` as the user that [generated the app password](#generating-app-password-for-bitbucket)):

| Name | Value |
| ---  | ---   |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_PROVIDER` | bitbucket  |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_REPOSITORY_OWNER` | [repo_owner] |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_REPOSITORY_NAME` | [repo_name] |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_TOKEN` | [app_password] |
| `LCP_CI_SCM_USERNAME` | [auth_username] |

After updating these environment variables, the Jenkins service will restart. Any pushed branches and pull requests in your new repository should now trigger.

## Verifying Builds

Pushed branches and pull requests should trigger builds that you can see or deploy from the _Builds_ tab in the DXP Cloud console. After setting up integration with the Jenkins service, a good next step to verify these builds, to ensure that the integration was successful.

### Verifying Builds from Pushed Branches

To confirm that new Git pushes are triggering Jenkins builds:

1. Make a change to the repository (like adding a file), then commit it to the branch:

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Add file to test builds"
    ```

1. Push the branch up to BitBucket:

    ```bash
    git push bitbucket branch-name
    ```

1. Navigate to the _Builds_ page in the DXP Cloud console.

1. Verify that the build displays for the pushed branch on the _Builds_ page.

### Verifying Builds from Pull Requests

To confirm that new pull requests are triggering Jenkins builds:

1. Create a pull request from the any branch to the `develop` branch.

1. Verify that a new build is created for the pull request.

1. Navigate to the _Builds_ page in the DXP Cloud console.

1. Click the links for the branch and commit in the appropriate build.

    ![Check the links for the branch and commit for your build, on the Builds page.](./configuring-your-bitbucket-repository/images/05.png)

1. Verify that the links redirect to the correct BitBucket pages.

## Additional Information

* [Configuring Your GitHub Repository](./configuring-your-github-repository.md)
* [Configuring Your GitLab Repository](./configuring-your-gitlab-repository.md)
