docs/dxp/7.x/en/system-administration/system-settings/file-storage/file-store-migration.md, before:

# File Store Migration

Files can be migrated from one file store type to another. Here are some migration scenarios:

* Migrating from Simple File System Store to Advanced File System Store for improved performance and scalability.
* Migrating from Simple, Advanced, or S3 to DBStore to avoid transaction rollback vulnerabilities.
* Migrating from DBStore to Advanced File System Store to accommodate files larger than 1 gigabyte.

The Data Migration utility facilitates the migration.

```warning::
   **Always** `back up <../../../installation-and-upgrades/maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/backing-up.md>`_ your file store and database before migrating. Testing the migration process on backup copies is advised.
```

## Migrating Files

Here are the migration steps:

1.  Configure the new file store in *System Settings* &rarr; *File 
    Storage*.
1.  In *Server Administration* &rarr; *Data Migration*, select the 
    repository hook (store implementation class) and click *Execute*.

    ![Data Migration utility](./file-store-migration/images/01.png)

1.  Make sure the data migrated correctly.

1.  Configure [`portal-ext.properties`](../../../installation-and-upgrades/reference/portal-properties.md) to the target file store type, using one of these settings:

    ```properties
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.db.DBStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.AdvancedFileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.FileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.s3.S3Store
    ```

1. Restart DXP.

Your DXP instance is using the migrated files on the newly configured file store.

## Additional Information

* [File Storage Overview](./file-storage.md)
* [Advanced File System Store](./advanced-file-system-store.md)
* [Amazon S3 Store](./amazon-s3-store.md)
* [DBStore](./dbstore.md)

Commit message:

warn to save file store settings

docs/dxp/7.x/en/system-administration/system-settings/file-storage/file-store-migration.md, after:

# File Store Migration

Files can be migrated from one file store type to another. Here are some migration scenarios:

* Migrating from Simple File System Store to Advanced File System Store for improved performance and scalability.
* Migrating from Simple, Advanced, or S3 to DBStore to avoid transaction rollback vulnerabilities.
* Migrating from DBStore to Advanced File System Store to accommodate files larger than 1 gigabyte.

The Data Migration utility facilitates the migration.

```warning::
   **Always** `back up <../../../installation-and-upgrades/maintaining-a-liferay-dxp-installation/backing-up.md>`_ your file store and database before migrating. Testing the migration process on backup copies is advised.
```

## Migrating Files

Here are the migration steps:

1.  Configure the new file store in *System Settings* &rarr; *File 
    Storage*.
1.  In *Server Administration* &rarr; *Data Migration*, select the 
    repository hook (store implementation class) and click *Execute*.

    ![Data Migration utility](./file-store-migration/images/01.png)

1.  Make sure the data migrated correctly.

1.  Configure [`portal-ext.properties`](../../../installation-and-upgrades/reference/portal-properties.md) to the target file store type, using one of these settings:

    ```properties
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.db.DBStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.AdvancedFileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.FileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.s3.S3Store
    ```

1. Restart DXP.

Your DXP instance is using the migrated files on the newly configured file store.

```warning::
   Make sure to save your new store configuration in System Settings. Otherwise, you can't use the new store and following exception occurs: `java.lang.IllegalStateException: Store is not available`
```

## Additional Information

* [File Storage Overview](./file-storage.md)
* [Advanced File System Store](./advanced-file-system-store.md)
* [Amazon S3 Store](./amazon-s3-store.md)
* [DBStore](./dbstore.md)
