docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/installing-liferay-on-an-application-server/installing-liferay-on-weblogic.md, before:

# Installing DXP on WebLogic

Installing Liferay DXP on WebLogic requires deploying the DXP WAR file, deploying DXP's dependencies, and configuring WebLogic Server for DXP.

It is **highly recommended** to install DXP to a WebLogic Managed server. Deploying to a Managed Server lets you start or shut down DXP more quickly and facilitates transitioning into a cluster configuration. This article therefore focuses on installing DXP to a Managed Server.

Before installing DXP, configure an Admin Server and a Managed Server following [WebLogic's documentation](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/weblogic/documentation/index.html.

Liferay DXP requires a **Java JDK 8 or 11**. See [www.java.com](https://www.java.com/) to install a JDK.

```note::
   The [Liferay DXP Compatibility Matrix](https://web.liferay.com/documents/14/21598941/Liferay+DXP+7.2+Compatibility+Matrix/b6e0f064-db31-49b4-8317-a29d1d76abf7?) specifies supported databases and environments.
```

Download these files from the [Help Center](https://customer.liferay.com/downloads) (Subscribers) or from [Liferay Community Downloads](https://www.liferay.com/downloads-community):

* DXP WAR file
* Dependencies ZIP file
* OSGi Dependencies ZIP file

Here are the basic steps for installing DXP on WebLogic:

1. [Configuring WebLogic for DXP](#configuring-weblogic)
1. [Declaring the `Liferay Home` folder](#declaring-the-liferay-home-folder)
1. [Installing the dependencies](#installing-dxp-dependencies)
1. [Deploying the WAR](#deploying-dxp)

## Configuring WebLogic

### Configuring WebLogic's Node Manager

WebLogic requires a Node Manager to start and stop managed servers. Before installing DXP, configure the Node Manager included with the WebLogic installation. This is set in the `domains/your_domain_name/nodemanager/nodemanager.properties` file. Open this file and set the `SecureListener` property to `false`:

```properties
SecureListener=false
```

This setting disables the encryption (SSL) requirement for the Node Manager, allowing it to accept unencrypted connections. Although it's possible to run DXP with this property set to `true`, there may be some difficulties doing so. Furthermore, if `SecureListener` set to `true`, then configure the machine in the Admin Server's console to accept unencrypted connections from the Node Manager. To do this:

1. Log in to the Admin Server and select *Environment* &rarr; *Machines* from the *Domain Structure* box on the left.
1. Click the corresponding machine in the table and then select the *Configuration* &rarr; *Node Manager* tab.
1. Select *Plain* from the selector menu in the *Type* field.
1. Click *Save*.
1. Restart the Admin Server for this change to take effect.

If running WebLogic on certain *UNIX* systems, you may also need to set the `NativeVersionEnabled` property to `false`:

```properties
NativeVersionEnabled=false
```

This tells the Node Manager to start in non-native mode and use the start script specified by the `StartScriptEnabled` property to start Managed Servers. Otherwise, if running Solaris or Linux, use the default value of `true`. See Oracle's [Configuring Java Node Manager](https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1212/wls/NODEM/java_nodemgr.htm#NODEM173) documentation.

### Configuring WebLogic's JVM

Set the following variables in the two respective WebLogic startup scripts. These variables and scripts are as follows. Be sure to use `set` instead of `export` if you're on Windows.

1. `your-domain/startWebLogic.sh`: This is the Admin Server's startup
    script.

1. `your-domain/bin/startWebLogic.sh`: This is the startup script for
    Managed Servers.

    Add the following variables to both `startWebLogic.sh` scripts:

    ```bash
    export DERBY_FLAG="false"
    export JAVA_OPTIONS="${JAVA_OPTIONS} -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Duser.timezone=GMT -da:org.apache.lucene... -da:org.aspectj..."
    export MW_HOME="/your/weblogic/directory"
    export USER_MEM_ARGS="-Xmx2560m -Xms2560m"
    ```

    | **Important:** For DXP to work properly, the application server JVM must use the `GMT` time zone and `UTF-8` file encoding.

    The `DERBY_FLAG` setting disables the Derby server built in to WebLogic, as DXP does not require this server. The remaining settings support DXP's memory requirements, UTF-8 requirement, Lucene usage, and Aspect Oriented Programming via AspectJ. Also make sure to set `MW_HOME` to the directory containing the WebLogic server on the machine. For example:

    ```bash
    export MW_HOME="/Users/ray/Oracle/wls12210"
    ```

1. Some of the settings are also found in the `your-domain/bin/SetDomainEnv.sh`:

    ```bash
    WLS_MEM_ARGS_64BIT="-Xms2560m -Xmx2560m"
    export WLS_MEM_ARGS_64BIT

    WLS_MEM_ARGS_32BIT="-Xms2560m -Xmx2560m"
    export WLS_MEM_ARGS_32BIT
    ```

1. Set the Java file encoding to UTF-8 in `your-domain/bin/SetDomainEnv.sh` by appending `-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8` ahead of the other Java properties:

    ```bash
    JAVA_PROPERTIES="-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 ${JAVA_PROPERTIES} ${CLUSTER_PROPERTIES}"
    ```

1. Ensure that the Node Manager sets DXP's memory requirements when starting the Managed Server. In the Admin Server's console UI, navigate to the Managed Server where DXP is to be deployed and select the *Server Start* tab. Enter the following parameters into the *Arguments* field:

    ```bash
    -Xmx2560m -Xms2560m -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512m
    ```

1. Click *Save* when finished.

## Declaring the Liferay Home Folder

Before installing DXP, set the [*Liferay Home*](../../14-reference/01-liferay-home.md) folder's location via the `liferay.home` property in a [`portal-ext.properties`](../../14-reference/03-portal-properties.md) file. (Use this file to override [other DXP properties](https://docs.liferay.com/dxp/portal/7.2-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html) as needed.) In WebLogic, the user domain's folder is generally Liferay Home, but any other folder on the machine can be used.

1. Add the `liferay.home` property:

```properties
liferay.home=/full/path/to/your/liferay/home/folder
```

Remember to change this file path to the location on your machine that serving as Liferay Home.

Put the updated `portal-ext.properties` inside the DXP WAR file by expanding the DXP WAR file. Navigate to the `WEB-INF/classes` folder then place the `portal-ext.properties` file here. Next, deploy the expanded archive to WebLogic. Alternatively, you can re-WAR the expanded archive for later deployment. In either case, DXP reads the property settings once it starts up.

If the `portal-ext.properties` has to be modified after DXP deploys, the file is found in the user domain's `autodeploy/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes` folder. Note that the `autodeploy/ROOT` folder contains the DXP deployment.

## Installing DXP Dependencies

1. Unzip the Dependencies ZIP file and place its contents in the WebLogic domain's `lib` folder.
1. Unzip the OSGi Dependencies ZIP file and place its contents in the `Liferay_Home/osgi` folder (create this folder if it doesn't exist).
1. Add the database's driver JAR file to the user domain's `lib` folder. Note that although Hypersonic is fine for testing purposes, **do not** use it for production DXP instances.

A JDBC driver for the database has been added to the user domain's `lib` folder. Here are some common JDBC drivers:

* [`mariadb.jar`](https://downloads.mariadb.org/)
* [`mysql.jar`](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j)
* [`postgres.jar`](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/postgresql-42.0.0.jar)

### Database Configuration

DXP contains a built-in Hypersonic database which is great for testing and demonstration purposes but _should not be used in production_. See the [Configure a Database](../configuring-a-database.md) article to learn more about  database configurations in general. You can also use the [Setup Wizard](../../../getting-started/using-the-setup-wizard.md) to configure your database when starting a DXP bundle for the first time.

Otherwise, use the following procedure if using WebLogic to manage the database for DXP.

1. Log in to the AdminServer console.
1. In the *Domain Structure* tree, find the domain and navigate to *Services* &rarr; *JDBC* &rarr; *Data Sources*.
1. To create a new data source, click *New*.
1. Enter the *Name* field with `Liferay Data Source` and the *JNDI Name* field with `jdbc/LiferayPool`.
1. Select the database type and driver. For example, MySQL is *MySQL's Driver (Type 4) Versions:using com.mysql.jdbc.Driver*.
1. Click *Next* to continue.
1. Accept the default settings on this page and click *Next* to move on.
1. Fill in the database information for the MySQL database.
1. If using MySQL, add the text `?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=UTF-8&\useFastDateParsing=false` to the URL line and test the connection. If it works, click *Next*.
1. Select the target for the data source and click *Finish*.
1. Connect DXP to the JDBC data source: in the `portal-ext.properties` file (see above) in the Liferay Home directory, enter the following line:

    ```properties
    jdbc.default.jndi.name=jdbc/LiferayPool
    ```

Alternatively, the above configuration can be made strictly via properties in the `portal-ext.properties` file. To do so, place the following properties and values in the file. Be sure to change the `your*` values with the values appropriate for the database's configuration (if using MySQL):

```properties
jdbc.default.driverClassName=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
jdbc.default.url=jdbc:mysql://your.db.ip.address/yourdbname?useUnicode?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=UTF-8&useFastDateParsing=false
jdbc.default.username=yourdbuser
jdbc.default.password=yourdbpassword
```

### Mail Configuration

Liferay DXP can be [connected to a mail server](../../02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server.md) of your choice. Another option is WebLogic's mail session:

1. Start WebLogic and log in to the Admin Server's console.
1. Select *Services* &rarr; *Mail Sessions* from the *Domain Structure* box on the left hand side of the Admin Server's console UI.
1. Click *New* to begin creating a new mail session.
1. Name the session *LiferayMail* and give it the JNDI name `mail/MailSession`.
1. Enter the *Session Username*, *Session Password*, *Confirm Session Password*, and *JavaMail Properties* fields as necessary for the mail server. See the [WebLogic documentation](http://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1221/wls/FMWCH/pagehelp/Mailcreatemailsessiontitle.html) for more information on these fields.
1. Click *Next*.
1. Choose the Managed Server where DXP is to be installed on, and click *Finish*.
1. Shut down the Managed and Admin Servers.
1. With the Managed and Admin servers shut down, add the following property to the `portal-ext.properties` file in Liferay Home:

    ```properties
    mail.session.jndi.name=mail/MailSession
    ```

DXP references the WebLogic mail session via this property setting. If DXP has already been deployed, the `portal-ext.properties` file can be found in the domain's `autodeploy/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes` folder.

The changes take effect upon restarting the Managed and Admin servers.

## Deploying DXP on a Managed Server

Follow these steps to deploy DXP:

1. Verify that the designated Managed Server where DXP is to be deployed on is shut down.
1. In the Admin Server's console UI, select *Deployments* from the *Domain Structure* box on the left hand side.
1. Click *Install* to start a new deployment.
1. Select the DXP WAR file or its expanded contents on the machine. Alternatively, upload the WAR file by clicking the *Upload your file(s)* link. Click *Next*.
1. Select *Install this deployment as an application* and click *Next*.
1. Select the designated Managed Server where DXP is to be deployed and click *Next*.
1. If the default name is appropriate for the installation, keep it. Otherwise, enter a different name and click *Next*.
1. Click *Finish*.
1. After the deployment finishes, click *Save* if the configuration is correct.
1. Start the Managed Server where DXP is deployed on. DXP precompiles all the JSPs and then launches.

If you have a Liferay DXP Enterprise subscription, DXP requests your activation key. See [Activating Liferay DXP](../../02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/activating-liferay-dxp.md).

```note::
     Adjust the application server's logging level or log filters to avoid excessive benign log messages such as the ones below involving `PhaseOptimizer`.
```

```
 May 02, 2018 9:12:27 PM com.google.javascript.jscomp.PhaseOptimizer$NamedPass process
     WARNING: Skipping pass gatherExternProperties
May 02, 2018 9:12:27 PM com.google.javascript.jscomp.PhaseOptimizer$NamedPass process
     WARNING: Skipping pass checkControlFlow
May 02, 2018 9:12:27 PM com.google.javascript.jscomp.PhaseOptimizer$NamedPass process
     INFO: pass supports: [ES3 keywords as identifiers, getters, reserved words as properties, setters, string continuation, trailing comma, array pattern rest, arrow function, binary literal, block-scoped function declaration, class, computed property, const declaration, default parameter, destructuring, extended object literal, for-of loop, generator, let declaration, member declaration, new.target, octal literal, RegExp flag 'u', RegExp flag 'y', rest parameter, spread expression, super, template literal, modules, exponent operator (**), async function, trailing comma in param list]
     current AST contains: [ES3 keywords as identifiers, getters, reserved words as properties, setters, string continuation, trailing comma, array pattern rest, arrow function, binary literal, block-scoped function declaration, class, computed property, const declaration, default parameter, destructuring, extended object literal, for-of loop, generator, let declaration, member declaration, new.target, octal literal, RegExp flag 'u', RegExp flag 'y', rest parameter, spread expression, super, template literal, exponent operator (**), async function, trailing comma in param list, object literals with spread, object pattern rest]
```

Commit message:

Clarify instructions for using Java Node Manager.

docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay-dxp-on-premises/installing-liferay-on-an-application-server/installing-liferay-on-weblogic.md, after:

# Installing DXP on WebLogic

Installing Liferay DXP on WebLogic requires deploying the DXP WAR file, deploying DXP's dependencies, and configuring WebLogic Server for DXP.

It is **highly recommended** to install DXP to a WebLogic Managed server. Deploying to a Managed Server lets you start or shut down DXP more quickly and facilitates transitioning into a cluster configuration. This article therefore focuses on installing DXP to a Managed Server.

Before installing DXP, configure an Admin Server and a Managed Server following [WebLogic's documentation](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/middleware/weblogic/documentation/index.html).

Liferay DXP requires a **Java JDK 8 or 11**. See [www.java.com](https://www.java.com/) to install a JDK.

```note::
   The [Liferay DXP Compatibility Matrix](https://web.liferay.com/documents/14/21598941/Liferay+DXP+7.2+Compatibility+Matrix/b6e0f064-db31-49b4-8317-a29d1d76abf7?) specifies supported databases and environments.
```

Download these files from the [Help Center](https://customer.liferay.com/downloads) (Subscribers) or from [Liferay Community Downloads](https://www.liferay.com/downloads-community):

* DXP WAR file
* Dependencies ZIP file
* OSGi Dependencies ZIP file

Here are the basic steps for installing DXP on WebLogic:

1. [Configuring WebLogic for DXP](#configuring-weblogic)
1. [Declaring the `Liferay Home` folder](#declaring-the-liferay-home-folder)
1. [Installing the dependencies](#installing-dxp-dependencies)
1. [Deploying the WAR](#deploying-dxp)

## Configuring WebLogic

### Configuring WebLogic's Node Manager

WebLogic requires a Node Manager to start and stop managed servers. Before installing DXP, configure the Node Manager included with the WebLogic installation. This is set in the `domains/your_domain_name/nodemanager/nodemanager.properties` file. Open this file and set the `SecureListener` property to `false`:

```properties
SecureListener=false
```

This setting disables the encryption (SSL) requirement for the Node Manager, allowing it to accept unencrypted connections. Although it's possible to run DXP with this property set to `true`, there may be some difficulties doing so. Furthermore, if `SecureListener` set to `true`, then configure the machine in the Admin Server's console to accept unencrypted connections from the Node Manager. To do this:

1. Log in to the Admin Server and select *Environment* &rarr; *Machines* from the *Domain Structure* box on the left.
1. Click the corresponding machine in the table and then select the *Configuration* &rarr; *Node Manager* tab.
1. Select *Plain* from the selector menu in the *Type* field.
1. Click *Save*.
1. Restart the Admin Server for this change to take effect.

If you're running WebLogic on a UNIX system other than Solaris or Linux, use the Java Node Manager, instead of the native version of the Node Manager, by configuring these Node Manager properties in the `domains/your_domain_name/nodemanager/nodemanager.properties` file:

```properties
NativeVersionEnabled=false

StartScriptEnabled=true
```

See Oracle's [Configuring Java Node Manager](https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1212/wls/NODEM/java_nodemgr.htm#NODEM173) documentation for details.

### Configuring WebLogic's JVM

Set the following variables in the two respective WebLogic startup scripts. These variables and scripts are as follows. Be sure to use `set` instead of `export` if you're on Windows.

1. `your-domain/startWebLogic.sh`: This is the Admin Server's startup
    script.

1. `your-domain/bin/startWebLogic.sh`: This is the startup script for
    Managed Servers.

    Add the following variables to both `startWebLogic.sh` scripts:

    ```bash
    export DERBY_FLAG="false"
    export JAVA_OPTIONS="${JAVA_OPTIONS} -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Duser.timezone=GMT -da:org.apache.lucene... -da:org.aspectj..."
    export MW_HOME="/your/weblogic/directory"
    export USER_MEM_ARGS="-Xmx2560m -Xms2560m"
    ```

    | **Important:** For DXP to work properly, the application server JVM must use the `GMT` time zone and `UTF-8` file encoding.

    The `DERBY_FLAG` setting disables the Derby server built in to WebLogic, as DXP does not require this server. The remaining settings support DXP's memory requirements, UTF-8 requirement, Lucene usage, and Aspect Oriented Programming via AspectJ. Also make sure to set `MW_HOME` to the directory containing the WebLogic server on the machine. For example:

    ```bash
    export MW_HOME="/Users/ray/Oracle/wls12210"
    ```

1. Some of the settings are also found in the `your-domain/bin/SetDomainEnv.sh`:

    ```bash
    WLS_MEM_ARGS_64BIT="-Xms2560m -Xmx2560m"
    export WLS_MEM_ARGS_64BIT

    WLS_MEM_ARGS_32BIT="-Xms2560m -Xmx2560m"
    export WLS_MEM_ARGS_32BIT
    ```

1. Set the Java file encoding to UTF-8 in `your-domain/bin/SetDomainEnv.sh` by appending `-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8` ahead of the other Java properties:

    ```bash
    JAVA_PROPERTIES="-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 ${JAVA_PROPERTIES} ${CLUSTER_PROPERTIES}"
    ```

1. Ensure that the Node Manager sets DXP's memory requirements when starting the Managed Server. In the Admin Server's console UI, navigate to the Managed Server where DXP is to be deployed and select the *Server Start* tab. Enter the following parameters into the *Arguments* field:

    ```bash
    -Xmx2560m -Xms2560m -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512m
    ```

1. Click *Save* when finished.

## Declaring the Liferay Home Folder

Before installing DXP, set the [*Liferay Home*](../../14-reference/01-liferay-home.md) folder's location via the `liferay.home` property in a [`portal-ext.properties`](../../14-reference/03-portal-properties.md) file. (Use this file to override [other DXP properties](https://docs.liferay.com/dxp/portal/7.2-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html) as needed.) In WebLogic, the user domain's folder is generally Liferay Home, but any other folder on the machine can be used.

1. Add the `liferay.home` property:

```properties
liferay.home=/full/path/to/your/liferay/home/folder
```

Remember to change this file path to the location on your machine that serving as Liferay Home.

Put the updated `portal-ext.properties` inside the DXP WAR file by expanding the DXP WAR file. Navigate to the `WEB-INF/classes` folder then place the `portal-ext.properties` file here. Next, deploy the expanded archive to WebLogic. Alternatively, you can re-WAR the expanded archive for later deployment. In either case, DXP reads the property settings once it starts up.

If the `portal-ext.properties` has to be modified after DXP deploys, the file is found in the user domain's `autodeploy/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes` folder. Note that the `autodeploy/ROOT` folder contains the DXP deployment.

## Installing DXP Dependencies

1. Unzip the Dependencies ZIP file and place its contents in the WebLogic domain's `lib` folder.
1. Unzip the OSGi Dependencies ZIP file and place its contents in the `Liferay_Home/osgi` folder (create this folder if it doesn't exist).
1. Add the database's driver JAR file to the user domain's `lib` folder. Note that although Hypersonic is fine for testing purposes, **do not** use it for production DXP instances.

A JDBC driver for the database has been added to the user domain's `lib` folder. Here are some common JDBC drivers:

* [`mariadb.jar`](https://downloads.mariadb.org/)
* [`mysql.jar`](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j)
* [`postgres.jar`](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/postgresql-42.0.0.jar)

### Database Configuration

DXP contains a built-in Hypersonic database which is great for testing and demonstration purposes but _should not be used in production_. See the [Configure a Database](../configuring-a-database.md) article to learn more about  database configurations in general. You can also use the [Setup Wizard](../../../getting-started/using-the-setup-wizard.md) to configure your database when starting a DXP bundle for the first time.

Otherwise, use the following procedure if using WebLogic to manage the database for DXP.

1. Log in to the AdminServer console.
1. In the *Domain Structure* tree, find the domain and navigate to *Services* &rarr; *JDBC* &rarr; *Data Sources*.
1. To create a new data source, click *New*.
1. Enter the *Name* field with `Liferay Data Source` and the *JNDI Name* field with `jdbc/LiferayPool`.
1. Select the database type and driver. For example, MySQL is *MySQL's Driver (Type 4) Versions:using com.mysql.jdbc.Driver*.
1. Click *Next* to continue.
1. Accept the default settings on this page and click *Next* to move on.
1. Fill in the database information for the MySQL database.
1. If using MySQL, add the text `?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=UTF-8&\useFastDateParsing=false` to the URL line and test the connection. If it works, click *Next*.
1. Select the target for the data source and click *Finish*.
1. Connect DXP to the JDBC data source: in the `portal-ext.properties` file (see above) in the Liferay Home directory, enter the following line:

    ```properties
    jdbc.default.jndi.name=jdbc/LiferayPool
    ```

Alternatively, the above configuration can be made strictly via properties in the `portal-ext.properties` file. To do so, place the following properties and values in the file. Be sure to change the `your*` values with the values appropriate for the database's configuration (if using MySQL):

```properties
jdbc.default.driverClassName=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
jdbc.default.url=jdbc:mysql://your.db.ip.address/yourdbname?useUnicode?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=UTF-8&useFastDateParsing=false
jdbc.default.username=yourdbuser
jdbc.default.password=yourdbpassword
```

### Mail Configuration

Liferay DXP can be [connected to a mail server](../../02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server.md) of your choice. Another option is WebLogic's mail session:

1. Start WebLogic and log in to the Admin Server's console.
1. Select *Services* &rarr; *Mail Sessions* from the *Domain Structure* box on the left hand side of the Admin Server's console UI.
1. Click *New* to begin creating a new mail session.
1. Name the session *LiferayMail* and give it the JNDI name `mail/MailSession`.
1. Enter the *Session Username*, *Session Password*, *Confirm Session Password*, and *JavaMail Properties* fields as necessary for the mail server. See the [WebLogic documentation](http://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1221/wls/FMWCH/pagehelp/Mailcreatemailsessiontitle.html) for more information on these fields.
1. Click *Next*.
1. Choose the Managed Server where DXP is to be installed on, and click *Finish*.
1. Shut down the Managed and Admin Servers.
1. With the Managed and Admin servers shut down, add the following property to the `portal-ext.properties` file in Liferay Home:

    ```properties
    mail.session.jndi.name=mail/MailSession
    ```

DXP references the WebLogic mail session via this property setting. If DXP has already been deployed, the `portal-ext.properties` file can be found in the domain's `autodeploy/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes` folder.

The changes take effect upon restarting the Managed and Admin servers.

## Deploying DXP on a Managed Server

Follow these steps to deploy DXP:

1. Verify that the designated Managed Server where DXP is to be deployed on is shut down.
1. In the Admin Server's console UI, select *Deployments* from the *Domain Structure* box on the left hand side.
1. Click *Install* to start a new deployment.
1. Select the DXP WAR file or its expanded contents on the machine. Alternatively, upload the WAR file by clicking the *Upload your file(s)* link. Click *Next*.
1. Select *Install this deployment as an application* and click *Next*.
1. Select the designated Managed Server where DXP is to be deployed and click *Next*.
1. If the default name is appropriate for the installation, keep it. Otherwise, enter a different name and click *Next*.
1. Click *Finish*.
1. After the deployment finishes, click *Save* if the configuration is correct.
1. Start the Managed Server where DXP is deployed on. DXP precompiles all the JSPs and then launches.

If you have a Liferay DXP Enterprise subscription, DXP requests your activation key. See [Activating Liferay DXP](../../02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/activating-liferay-dxp.md).

```note::
     Adjust the application server's logging level or log filters to avoid excessive benign log messages such as the ones below involving `PhaseOptimizer`.
```

```
 May 02, 2018 9:12:27 PM com.google.javascript.jscomp.PhaseOptimizer$NamedPass process
     WARNING: Skipping pass gatherExternProperties
May 02, 2018 9:12:27 PM com.google.javascript.jscomp.PhaseOptimizer$NamedPass process
     WARNING: Skipping pass checkControlFlow
May 02, 2018 9:12:27 PM com.google.javascript.jscomp.PhaseOptimizer$NamedPass process
     INFO: pass supports: [ES3 keywords as identifiers, getters, reserved words as properties, setters, string continuation, trailing comma, array pattern rest, arrow function, binary literal, block-scoped function declaration, class, computed property, const declaration, default parameter, destructuring, extended object literal, for-of loop, generator, let declaration, member declaration, new.target, octal literal, RegExp flag 'u', RegExp flag 'y', rest parameter, spread expression, super, template literal, modules, exponent operator (**), async function, trailing comma in param list]
     current AST contains: [ES3 keywords as identifiers, getters, reserved words as properties, setters, string continuation, trailing comma, array pattern rest, arrow function, binary literal, block-scoped function declaration, class, computed property, const declaration, default parameter, destructuring, extended object literal, for-of loop, generator, let declaration, member declaration, new.target, octal literal, RegExp flag 'u', RegExp flag 'y', rest parameter, spread expression, super, template literal, exponent operator (**), async function, trailing comma in param list, object literals with spread, object pattern rest]
```
