docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay/using-liferay-dxp-docker-images/configuring-dxp-containers.md, before:

# Configuring DXP Containers

Everything that is configurable in DXP installations is configurable in DXP Docker containers too.

Here are the most common things to configure:

* [JVM Options](#jvm-options)
* [Portal Properties](#portal-properties)
* [System Properties](#system-properties)
* [System Settings](#system-settings)

```note::
   The configuration use cases that involve providing a file to the container are demonstrated here using `bind mounts <https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/>`_. You can also use `volumes <https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/>`_ and in some cases, use a ``docker cp`` command. See `Providing File to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md>`_ for more information.
```

## JVM Options

Tomcat's JVM options can be appended or replaced.

### Appending JVM Options to CATALINA_OPTS

JVM options can be appended to Tomcat's `CATALINA_OPTS` variable by specifying them in a `LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS` environment variable when you create the container.

```bash
docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -e LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS=[value\ with\ space] liferay/dxp:[tag]
```

```warning::
   In the ``LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS`` value, use backslashes to escape space characters. Don't use quotes.
```

The container runs with the `LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS` value appended to Tomcat's `CATALINA_OPTS`.

### Replacing the setenv.sh File

You can override Tomcat's `setenv.sh` script wholesale. A fast way to create a `setenv.sh` script is to copy one from a DXP container. Here's how to modify a copy of the script and use it in a new container:

1. If you have an existing DXP container, start it. Otherwise, run a new one.

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name tmp-dxp -p 8080:8080 liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

1. Copy the `setenv.sh` file from the container.

    ```bash
    docker cp tmp-dxp:/opt/liferay/tomcat/bin/setenv.sh .
    ```

1. [Stop the container](./dxp-docker-container-basics.md#stopping-a-container).

1. Set the JVM options in your copy of `setenv.sh`.

1. Create a host folder and subfolders to create the path `files/tomcat/bin`.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files/tomcat/bin
    cp setenv.sh [host folder]/files/tomcat/bin
    ```

1. Run a container with a `-v` option that bind mounts to your host folder:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

The container uses your `setenv.sh` script's JVM options.

```note::
   Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
```

```note::
   See `DXP Docker Container Basics <./dxp-docker-container-basics.md>`_ for details on starting and operating DXP containers.
```

## Portal Properties

DXP container [Portal Properties](../../reference/portal-properties.md) can be overridden in these two ways:

* [Using Liferay Env Variables](#using-liferay-env-variables)
* [Using a Portal Properties File](#using-a-portal-properties-file)

### Using Liferay Env Variables

There's an *Env* variable for each [Portal Property](../../reference/portal-properties.md). Env properties override a DXP Docker container's Portal Properties.

1. In the [Portal Properties](https://docs.liferay.com/ce/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html) online description, find the property you want to override.

1. Copy the `Env` variable name displayed just below the property description. For example, here's the Env variable for the [`jdbc.default.jndi.name`](https://docs.liferay.com/ce/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html#JDBC) Portal Property:

    ```properties
    Env: LIFERAY_JDBC_PERIOD_DEFAULT_PERIOD_JNDI_PERIOD_NAME
    ```

1. Create a container, passing in your new Portal Property value using the `-e` option.

    ```
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -e LIFERAY_JDBC_PERIOD_DEFAULT_PERIOD_JNDI_PERIOD_NAME=jdbc/MyPool liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

    ```warning::
       In the ``Env`` variable value, use backslashes to escape space characters. Don't use quotes.
    ```

    ```note::
       See `DXP Docker Container Basics <./dxp-docker-container-basics.md>`_ for details on starting and operating the containers.
    ```

The properties are visible in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _Server Administration_ &rarr; _Properties_ &rarr; _Portal Properties_.

### Using a Portal Properties File

You can override a DXP container's Portal Properties using a `portal-ext.properties` file. This example uses a [bind mount](./providing-files-to-the-container.md).

1. Create a host folder, a subfolder called `files`, and a `portal-ext.properties` file.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files
    touch [host folder]/files/portal-ext.properties
    ```

1. Add your property overrides to the `portal-ext.properties` file. For example,

    ```bash
    echo "jdbc.default.jndi.name=jdbc/MyPool" >> [host folder]/files/portal-ext.properties
    ```

1. Create a container, that includes a bind mount that maps your `portal-ext.properties` file's folder to the container's `/mnt/liferay/files` folder. Since this example's `portal-ext.properties` is in a folder called `files`, you can [bind mount to the container's `/mnt/liferay` folder](./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay).

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

The properties are visible in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _Server Administration_ &rarr; _Properties_ &rarr; _Portal Properties_.

### Overriding DXP Image Env Variable Defaults

The official Liferay images preconfigure these Env variables ([Portal Properties](../../reference/portal-properties.md)):

```properties
LIFERAY_MODULE_PERIOD_FRAMEWORK_PERIOD_PROPERTIES_PERIOD_OSGI_PERIOD_CONSOLE=0.0.0.0:11311
LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ADD_PERIOD_SAMPLE_PERIOD_DATA=false
LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ENABLED=false
LIFERAY_TERMS_PERIOD_OF_PERIOD_USE_PERIOD_REQUIRED=false
LIFERAY_USERS_PERIOD_REMINDER_PERIOD_QUERIES_PERIOD_ENABLED=false
```

You can override them in one of two ways:

* Specify it using `-e [VAR_Name=value]`
* Specify it using a `portal-ext.properties` file.

#### Overriding an Env Variable Using a Docker Environment Variable

You can use a `docker run -e [VAR_NAME=value] ...` command to pass in your new Env variable setting. Example,

    ```bash
    docker run -e LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ENABLED=true
    ```

#### Overriding an Env Variable Using a Portal Property

You can specify the Env variable using a Portal Property and point the container to it at container creation. Here's an example:

1. Create a `portal-ext.properties` file:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files
    touch [host folder]/files/portal-ext.properties
    ```

1. Specify the Env variable assignment using a corresponding _property_ assignment in `portal-ext.properties`. For example,

    ```bash
    echo "setup.wizard.enabled=true" >> [host folder]/files/portal-ext.properties
    ```

1. Run a new container that specifies the Env variable name and a that specifies a bind mount to your host folder.

    ```bash
    docker run -e LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ENABLED  -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay
    ```

    ```note::
       Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
    ```

Your container is using your new Env variable value.

## System Properties

[System Properties](https://docs.liferay.com/ce/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/system.properties.html) can be overridden using a `system-ext.properties` file. This example uses a [bind mount](./providing-files-to-the-container.md).

1. Create a host folder, subfolders to create the path `files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes`, and a `system-ext.properties` file.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes
    touch [host folder]/files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes/system-ext.properties
    ```

1. Add your property overrides to the `system-ext.properties` file.

1. Run a new container with a `-v` option that bind mounts to your host folder:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

    ```note::
       Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
    ```

The properties are visible in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _Server Administration_ &rarr; _Properties_ &rarr; _System Properties_.

## System Settings

DXP System Settings can be configured in the [Control Panel](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360029131591-System-Settings) or by providing [Configuration Files](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360029131651-Understanding-System-Configuration-Files) (`.config` files) to the container. You can create a `.config` file from scratch or by exporting the component configuration values from the UI.

Modify the System Settings using one of these ways:

* [Applying Configurations to a New Container](#applying-configurations-to-a-new-container)
* [Applying Configuration Files at Run Time](#applying-configuration-files-at-run-time)
* [Using the Control Panel](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360029131591-System-Settings)

### Applying Configurations to a New Container

If you have not yet created a container, follow these steps to provide a `.config` file to a new container using a [bind mount](./providing-files-to-the-container.md):

1. Create a host folder and subfolders to make the path `[host folder]/files/osgi/configs`.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files/osgi/configs
    ```

1. Copy your `.config` files to the host folder's `files/osgi/configs` subfolder. For example,

    ```
    cp ~/*.config [host folder path]/files/osgi/configs
    ```

1. Run the DXP container with a `-v` option that bind mounts your host folder:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

    ```note::
       Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
    ```

The system component configurations are visible in DXP's Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _System Settings_, in the screen for that component.

### Applying Configuration Files at Run Time

If you have a container already, you can copy `.config` files to your container at run time using a `docker cp` command like this one:

```bash
docker cp ~/my-configs/[some.configuration.file].config [container]:/mnt/liferay/osgi/configs
```

## Conclusion

Now you know how to configure a DXP container's JVM options, Portal Properties, DXP image Env variable, System Properties, and System Settings.

## Additional Information

* [DXP Docker Container Basics](./dxp-docker-container-basics.md)
* [DXP Container Lifecycle and API](./dxp-container-lifecycle-and-api.md)
* [Providing Files to the Container](./providing-files-to-the-container.md)
* [Installing Apps and Other Artifacts to Containers](./installing-apps-and-other-artifacts-to-containers.md)
* [Patching DXP in Docker](./patching-dxp-in-docker.md)

Commit message:

create files using echo blah >> file

docs/dxp/7.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay/using-liferay-dxp-docker-images/configuring-dxp-containers.md, after:

# Configuring DXP Containers

Everything that is configurable in DXP installations is configurable in DXP Docker containers too.

Here are the most common things to configure:

* [JVM Options](#jvm-options)
* [Portal Properties](#portal-properties)
* [System Properties](#system-properties)
* [System Settings](#system-settings)

```note::
   The configuration use cases that involve providing a file to the container are demonstrated here using `bind mounts <https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/>`_. You can also use `volumes <https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/>`_ and in some cases, use a ``docker cp`` command. See `Providing File to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md>`_ for more information.
```

## JVM Options

Tomcat's JVM options can be appended or replaced.

### Appending JVM Options to CATALINA_OPTS

JVM options can be appended to Tomcat's `CATALINA_OPTS` variable by specifying them in a `LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS` environment variable when you create the container.

```bash
docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -e LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS=[value\ with\ space] liferay/dxp:[tag]
```

```warning::
   In the ``LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS`` value, use backslashes to escape space characters. Don't use quotes.
```

The container runs with the `LIFERAY_JVM_OPTS` value appended to Tomcat's `CATALINA_OPTS`.

### Replacing the setenv.sh File

You can override Tomcat's `setenv.sh` script wholesale. A fast way to create a `setenv.sh` script is to copy one from a DXP container. Here's how to modify a copy of the script and use it in a new container:

1. If you have an existing DXP container, start it. Otherwise, run a new one.

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name tmp-dxp -p 8080:8080 liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

1. Copy the `setenv.sh` file from the container.

    ```bash
    docker cp tmp-dxp:/opt/liferay/tomcat/bin/setenv.sh .
    ```

1. [Stop the container](./dxp-docker-container-basics.md#stopping-a-container).

1. Set the JVM options in your copy of `setenv.sh`.

1. Create a host folder and subfolders to create the path `files/tomcat/bin`.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files/tomcat/bin
    cp setenv.sh [host folder]/files/tomcat/bin
    ```

1. Run a container with a `-v` option that bind mounts to your host folder:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

The container uses your `setenv.sh` script's JVM options.

```note::
   Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
```

```note::
   See `DXP Docker Container Basics <./dxp-docker-container-basics.md>`_ for details on starting and operating DXP containers.
```

## Portal Properties

DXP container [Portal Properties](../../reference/portal-properties.md) can be overridden in these two ways:

* [Using Liferay Env Variables](#using-liferay-env-variables)
* [Using a Portal Properties File](#using-a-portal-properties-file)

### Using Liferay Env Variables

There's an *Env* variable for each [Portal Property](../../reference/portal-properties.md). Env properties override a DXP Docker container's Portal Properties.

1. In the [Portal Properties](https://docs.liferay.com/ce/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html) online description, find the property you want to override.

1. Copy the `Env` variable name displayed just below the property description. For example, here's the Env variable for the [`jdbc.default.jndi.name`](https://docs.liferay.com/ce/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html#JDBC) Portal Property:

    ```properties
    Env: LIFERAY_JDBC_PERIOD_DEFAULT_PERIOD_JNDI_PERIOD_NAME
    ```

1. Create a container, passing in your new Portal Property value using the `-e` option.

    ```
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -e LIFERAY_JDBC_PERIOD_DEFAULT_PERIOD_JNDI_PERIOD_NAME=jdbc/MyPool liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

    ```warning::
       In the ``Env`` variable value, use backslashes to escape space characters. Don't use quotes.
    ```

    ```note::
       See `DXP Docker Container Basics <./dxp-docker-container-basics.md>`_ for details on starting and operating the containers.
    ```

The properties are visible in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _Server Administration_ &rarr; _Properties_ &rarr; _Portal Properties_.

### Using a Portal Properties File

You can override a DXP container's Portal Properties using a `portal-ext.properties` file. This example uses a [bind mount](./providing-files-to-the-container.md).

1. Create a host folder and a subfolder called `files`.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files
    ```

1. Add your property overrides to a `portal-ext.properties` file in the `files` subfolder you created. For example,

    ```bash
    echo "jdbc.default.jndi.name=jdbc/MyPool" >> [host folder]/files/portal-ext.properties
    ```

1. Create a container, that includes a bind mount that maps your `portal-ext.properties` file's folder to the container's `/mnt/liferay/files` folder. Since this example's `portal-ext.properties` is in a folder called `files`, you can [bind mount to the container's `/mnt/liferay` folder](./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay).

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

The properties are visible in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _Server Administration_ &rarr; _Properties_ &rarr; _Portal Properties_.

### Overriding DXP Image Env Variable Defaults

The official Liferay images preconfigure these Env variables ([Portal Properties](../../reference/portal-properties.md)):

```properties
LIFERAY_MODULE_PERIOD_FRAMEWORK_PERIOD_PROPERTIES_PERIOD_OSGI_PERIOD_CONSOLE=0.0.0.0:11311
LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ADD_PERIOD_SAMPLE_PERIOD_DATA=false
LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ENABLED=false
LIFERAY_TERMS_PERIOD_OF_PERIOD_USE_PERIOD_REQUIRED=false
LIFERAY_USERS_PERIOD_REMINDER_PERIOD_QUERIES_PERIOD_ENABLED=false
```

You can override them in one of two ways:

* Specify it using `-e [VAR_Name=value]`
* Specify it using a `portal-ext.properties` file.

#### Overriding an Env Variable Using a Docker Environment Variable

You can use a `docker run -e [VAR_NAME=value] ...` command to pass in your new Env variable setting. Example,

    ```bash
    docker run -e LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ENABLED=true
    ```

#### Overriding an Env Variable Using a Portal Property

You can specify the Env variable using a Portal Property and point the container to it at container creation. Here's an example:

1. Create a host folder and a subfolder called `files`:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files
    ```

1. Specify the Env variable assignment using a corresponding _property_ assignment in a `portal-ext.properties` file in the `files` subfolder you created. For example,

    ```bash
    echo "setup.wizard.enabled=true" >> [host folder]/files/portal-ext.properties
    ```

1. Run a new container that specifies the Env variable name and a that specifies a bind mount to your host folder.

    ```bash
    docker run -e LIFERAY_SETUP_PERIOD_WIZARD_PERIOD_ENABLED  -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay
    ```

    ```note::
       Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
    ```

Your container is using your new Env variable value.

## System Properties

[System Properties](https://docs.liferay.com/ce/portal/7.3-latest/propertiesdoc/system.properties.html) can be overridden using a `system-ext.properties` file. This example uses a [bind mount](./providing-files-to-the-container.md).

1. Create a host folder and subfolders to create the path `[host folder]/files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes`.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes
    ```

1. Add your property overrides to a `system-ext.properties` file in the `[host folder]/files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes` folder you created. For example,

    ```bash
    echo "net.sf.ehcache.skipUpdateCheck=false" >> [host folder]/files/tomcat/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes/system-ext.properties
    ```

1. Run a new container with a `-v` option that bind mounts to your host folder:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

    ```note::
       Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
    ```

The properties are visible in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _Server Administration_ &rarr; _Properties_ &rarr; _System Properties_.

## System Settings

DXP System Settings can be configured in the [Control Panel](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360029131591-System-Settings) or by providing [Configuration Files](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360029131651-Understanding-System-Configuration-Files) (`.config` files) to the container. You can create a `.config` file from scratch or by exporting the component configuration values from the UI.

Modify the System Settings using one of these ways:

* [Applying Configurations to a New Container](#applying-configurations-to-a-new-container)
* [Applying Configuration Files at Run Time](#applying-configuration-files-at-run-time)
* [Using the Control Panel](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360029131591-System-Settings)

### Applying Configurations to a New Container

If you have not yet created a container, follow these steps to provide a `.config` file to a new container using a [bind mount](./providing-files-to-the-container.md):

1. Create a host folder and subfolders to make the path `[host folder]/files/osgi/configs`.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p [host folder]/files/osgi/configs
    ```

1. Copy your `.config` files to the host folder's `files/osgi/configs` subfolder. For example,

    ```
    cp ~/*.config [host folder path]/files/osgi/configs
    ```

1. Run the DXP container with a `-v` option that bind mounts your host folder:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name [container] -p 8080:8080 -v [host folder path]:/mnt/liferay liferay/dxp:[tag]
    ```

    ```note::
       Please see `Providing Files to the Container <./providing-files-to-the-container.md#bind-mounting-a-host-folder-to-mnt-liferay>`_ for more information on bind mounting to to the container's ``/mnt/liferay`` folder.
    ```

The system component configurations are visible in DXP's Control Panel at _Configuration_ &rarr; _System Settings_, in the screen for that component.

### Applying Configuration Files at Run Time

If you have a container already, you can copy `.config` files to your container at run time using a `docker cp` command like this one:

```bash
docker cp [config file] [container]:/mnt/liferay/osgi/configs
```

## Conclusion

Now you know how to configure a DXP container's JVM options, Portal Properties, DXP image Env variable, System Properties, and System Settings.

## Additional Information

* [DXP Docker Container Basics](./dxp-docker-container-basics.md)
* [DXP Container Lifecycle and API](./dxp-container-lifecycle-and-api.md)
* [Providing Files to the Container](./providing-files-to-the-container.md)
* [Installing Apps and Other Artifacts to Containers](./installing-apps-and-other-artifacts-to-containers.md)
* [Patching DXP in Docker](./patching-dxp-in-docker.md)
