docs/dxp/7.x/en/process-automation/README.rst, before:

Process Automation
==================

Forms
-----

User Guide
~~~~~~~~~~

* Creating Forms
* Displaying Forms
* Managing Form Entries
* Form Field Types
* Form Rules
* Form Element Sets
* Data Providers
* Auto Save
* Translating Forms
* Autocompleting Text Fields
* Form Success Pages
* Workflow and Forms
* Duplicating Forms and Form Fields
* Form Pages
* Help Text, Placeholder Text, and Predefined Values
* Validating Text and Numeric Fields
* Enabling CAPTCHA on Form Submissions
* Form Notifications
* Redirecting Users
* Form Permissions
* Styling Form Pages
* Dynamic Data Lists

Developer Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Form Serialization with the DDM IO API
* Managing Data Definitions
* Managing Data Record Collections
* Managing Data Records
* Managing Data Layouts
* Form Storage Adapters

APIs
~~~~
Coming soon!

App Builder
-----------

User Guide
~~~~~~~~~~

* Creating Low-Code Applications

Developer Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Using the Data Engine

APIs
~~~~

* Data Engine APIs

Workflow
--------

* Introduction to Workflow

User Guide
~~~~~~~~~~

* Activating Workflow
* Managing Workflows
* Reviewing Assets
* Building Workflows
* Workflow Metrics

Developer Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Implementing a Workflow

APIs
~~~~
Coming soon!

Commit message:

Formatting, wordsmithing, update RSTs for workflow section

docs/dxp/7.x/en/process-automation/README.rst, after:

Process Automation
==================

Forms
-----

User Guide
~~~~~~~~~~

* Creating Forms
* Displaying Forms
* Managing Form Entries
* Form Field Types
* Form Rules
* Form Element Sets
* Data Providers
* Auto Save
* Translating Forms
* Autocompleting Text Fields
* Form Success Pages
* Workflow and Forms
* Duplicating Forms and Form Fields
* Form Pages
* Help Text, Placeholder Text, and Predefined Values
* Validating Text and Numeric Fields
* Enabling CAPTCHA on Form Submissions
* Form Notifications
* Redirecting Users
* Form Permissions
* Styling Form Pages
* Dynamic Data Lists

Developer Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Form Serialization with the DDM IO API
* Managing Data Definitions
* Managing Data Record Collections
* Managing Data Records
* Managing Data Layouts
* Form Storage Adapters

APIs
~~~~
Coming soon!

App Builder
-----------

User Guide
~~~~~~~~~~

* Creating Low-Code Applications

Developer Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Using the Data Engine

APIs
~~~~

* Data Engine APIs

Workflow
--------

* Introduction to Workflow

User Guide
~~~~~~~~~~

* Activating Workflow
* Managing Workflows
* Reviewing Assets
* Building Workflows
* Workflow Metrics

Developer Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Implementing a Workflow
-  :doc:`/process-automation/workflow/developer-guide/using-the-script-engine-in-workflow`

APIs
~~~~
Coming soon!
