docs/commerce/2.x/en/starting-a-store/currencies-reference.md, before:

# Currencies Reference

Liferay Commerce has several currencies pre-configured and ready to use. Each store must have a default currency enabled process orders. This article serves as a reference for the metadata associated with each currency.

To manage currencies, navigate to _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Settings_ then click the _Currencies_ tab.

![Adding a New Currency](./currencies-reference/images/01.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Name | Name of the currency |
| Code | Currency's 3 letter [ISO code](https://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html) |
| Format Pattern | Currency’s sign, the number of digits to come between commas, and which places are displayed. For example, in the format $###,##0.00 for US dollars, the places held by _0_ are always displayed (as 0 if no other digit is present) while the places held by _#_ are only displayed if occupied. A value of 0.01 in the above format would be displayed as $0.01. |
| Maximum Decimal Places | Maximum number of digits to the right of the decimal point allowed |
| Minimum Decimal Places | Minimum number of digits to the right of the decimal point allowed |
| Rounding Mode | A type of [rounding mode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rounding#Directed_rounding_to_an_integer) from the drop-down menu |
| Primary | Toggle to designate whether this currency is the store's default currency |
| Exchange Rate with US Dollar | Currency's exchange rate compared with the USD; calculated as _1 USD: X_ |
| Priority | Order in which the currency is displayed in the table; the higher the number, the further down it is displayed |
| Active | Toggle to activate this currency |

## Additional Information

* [Adding a New Currency](./adding-a-new-currency.md)
* [Mercanet](../orders-and-fulfillment/mercanet.md)

Commit message:

Updated currency reference per Marco Leo's feedback

docs/commerce/2.x/en/starting-a-store/currencies-reference.md, after:

# Currencies Reference

Liferay Commerce has several currencies pre-configured and ready to use. Each store must have a default currency enabled process orders. This article serves as a reference for the metadata associated with each currency.

To manage currencies, navigate to _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Settings_ then click the _Currencies_ tab.

![Adding a New Currency](./currencies-reference/images/01.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Name | Name of the currency |
| Code | Currency's 3 letter [ISO code](https://www.currency-iso.org/en/home/tables/table-a1.html) |
| Format Pattern | Currency’s sign, the number of digits to come between commas, and which places are displayed. For example, in the format $###,##0.00 for US dollars, the places held by _0_ are always displayed (as 0 if no other digit is present) while the places held by _#_ are only displayed if occupied. A value of 0.01 in the above format would be displayed as $0.01. |
| Maximum Decimal Places | Maximum number of digits to the right of the decimal point allowed |
| Minimum Decimal Places | Minimum number of digits to the right of the decimal point allowed |
| Rounding Mode | A type of [rounding mode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rounding#Directed_rounding_to_an_integer) from the drop-down menu |
| Primary | Toggle to designate whether this currency is the store's default currency |
| Exchange Rate with US Dollar | Currency's exchange rate compared with the store's default currency; by default, USD is designated as the primary currency but can be [modified in the UI](../orders-and-fulfillment/mercanet.md#set-eur-as-the-primary-store-currency). |
| Priority | Order in which the currency is displayed in the table; the higher the number, the further down it is displayed |
| Active | Toggle to activate this currency |

## Additional Information

* [Adding a New Currency](./adding-a-new-currency.md)
* [Mercanet](../orders-and-fulfillment/mercanet.md)
