docs/commerce/2.x/en/managing-a-catalog/creating-and-managing-products/products/product-attachments.md, before:

# Product Attachments

Users can upload attachments to provide supplemental information about a product available. Multiple attachments can be added to a single product; this is particularly useful for products with multiple variants or SKUs.

## Adding a Product Attachment

To add a product attachment:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ &rarr; _Commerce_ &rarr; _Products_.
1. Click on a product.
1. Click on the _Media_ tab.

    ![Media tab](./product-attachments/images/01.png)

1. Click the (![Add icon](../../../images/icon-add.png)) button next to Attachments.
1. Click _Select File_. This opens the _Documents and Media_ window.
1. Select an existing file or upload a new file.
1. Enter the following:

    * **Title**: Product Attachment 1
    * **Priority**: 1.0 <!-- What does this do? -->

1. Select any applicable product variant (SKU).

    ![Media tab](./product-attachments/images/02.png)

1. Click _Publish_ when finished.

Customers can download the product attachment when browsing for products on the Catalogs page. The attachment is located towards the bottom in the _Product Details_ widget.

![Product attachment is located inside the product details widget.](./product-attachments/images/03.png)

## Commerce 2.0 and Below

To add a product attachment:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ &rarr; _Commerce_ &rarr; _Products_.
1. Click on a product.
1. Click on the product's _Attachments_ tab.

    ![Attachments tab](./product-attachments/images/04.png)

1. Click on the add button (![Add icon](../../../images/icon-add.png)).
1. Click _Select File_. This opens the _Documents and Media_ window.
1. Select an existing file or upload a new file.
1. Enter the following:

    * **Title**: Product Attachment 1
    * **Priority**: 1.0

1. Select any applicable product options.
1. Click _Publish_ when finished.

The product attachment has been added.

## Additional Information

* [Product Images](./product-images.md)
* [Specifications](./specifications.md)

Commit message:

Renamed section and added emails to left nav

docs/commerce/2.x/en/managing-a-catalog/creating-and-managing-products/products/product-attachments.md, after:

# Product Attachments

Catalog managers can upload a downloadable document for a product which often provides additional information that is not already in the product's description or specifications. You can upload multiple attachments especially if there are more than one SKU (product variant).

To add a product attachment:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ &rarr; _Commerce_ &rarr; _Products_.
1. Click on a product.
1. Click on the _Media_ tab.

    ![Media tab](./product-attachments/images/01.png)

1. Click the (![Add icon](../../../images/icon-add.png)) button next to Attachments.
1. Click _Select File_. This opens the _Documents and Media_ window.
1. Select an existing file or upload a new file.
1. Enter the following:

    * **Title**: Product Attachment 1
    * **Priority**: 1.0

1. Select any applicable product variant (SKU).

    ![Media tab](./product-attachments/images/02.png)

1. Click _Publish_ when finished.

Customers can download the product attachment when browsing for products on the Catalogs page. The attachment is located towards the bottom in the _Product Details_ widget.

![Product attachment is located inside the product details widget.](./product-attachments/images/03.png)

## Commerce 2.0 and Below

To add a product attachment:

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ &rarr; _Commerce_ &rarr; _Products_.
1. Click on a product.
1. Click on the product's _Attachments_ tab.

    ![Attachments tab](./product-attachments/images/04.png)

1. Click on the add button (![Add icon](../../../images/icon-add.png)).
1. Click _Select File_. This opens the _Documents and Media_ window.
1. Select an existing file or upload a new file.
1. Enter the following:

    * **Title**: Product Attachment 1
    * **Priority**: 1.0

1. Select any applicable product options.
1. Click _Publish_ when finished.

## Additional Information

* [Product Images](./product-images.md)
* [Specifications](./specifications.md)
