docs/dxp/7.x/en/users-and-permissions/user-groups/managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups.md, before:

# Managing Site Membershsip and Permissions with User Groups

Manage site membership, and the roles and permissions of the site's members, with User Groups.

## Managing Site Membership with User Groups

One of the primary use cases for User Groups is to manage Site membership. When you assign a User Group to a Site, all the group's Users instantly become members of that Site.

![The User Groups tab in Memberships shows the User Groups currently assigned to the Site.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/02.png)

Follow these steps to assign a User Group to a Site:

1. Open the Menu (![Menu](../../images/icon-menu.png)), select the Site you want to work in, then open its Site Administration menu. 

1. In the Site Administration menu, select *People* &rarr; *Memberships*.  This opens the Site Memberships screen. 

   ![Select Memberships from the People menu.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/01.png)

1. In Memberships, select the *User Groups* tab. This tab displays any User Groups currently assigned to the Site. 

1. Click the *Add* button (![Add](../../images/icon-add.png)), select any User Groups you want to assign to the Site, then click *Done*.  The User Groups you selected now appear in the User Groups tab. 

## Managing Site Permissions with User Groups

User Groups are often created so the group's Users can take some specific action in a Site. By assigning the needed permissions for that action to a Role, and then assigning that Role to the User Group the User Group's Users can dynamically inherit the permissions they need to do their work. 

To grant permissions to Users in a User Group,

1. [Create the User Group](./creating-and-managing-user-groups.md#creating-a-user-group).
1. Assign the User Group to a Site ([see above](#managing-site-membership-with-user-groups)).
1. Create the Site Role and define its permissions (see the [Help Center article on Roles and Permissions](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360028819032-Roles-and-Permissions)).
1. Assign the Role to the User Group.

The first three steps are covered elsewhere. To assign an existing Site Role to an existing User Group that's already a member of the Site,

1. Open the Menu (![Menu](../../images/icon-menu.png)), select the Site to work in, then open its Site Administration menu. 

1. In the Site Administration menu, select *People* &rarr; *Memberships*.

   ![Select Memberships from the Site Administration menu.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/01.png)

1. In Memberships, select the *User Groups* tab to see the User Groups currently assigned to the Site. 

1. Click the *Actions* button (![Actions](../../images/icon-actions.png)) for the User Group you want to assign to a Role, and select *Assign Roles*.

   ![Select Assign Roles for the User Group.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/03.png)

1. In the Assign Roles dialog, select the Role from the list and click *Done*. 

Sites and User Groups go together like IT professionals and coffee.

Commit message:

LRDOCS-7577 cleanup in the managing site memebership...

docs/dxp/7.x/en/users-and-permissions/user-groups/managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups.md, after:

# Managing Site Membershsip and Permissions with User Groups

Manage site membership, and the roles and permissions of the site's members, with User Groups.

## Managing Site Membership with User Groups

One of the primary use cases for User Groups is to manage Site membership. When you assign a User Group to a Site, all the group's Users instantly become members of that Site.

![The User Groups tab in Memberships shows the User Groups currently assigned to the Site.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/02.png)

Follow these steps to assign a User Group to a Site:

1. Open the Menu (![Menu](../../images/icon-menu.png)), select the Site you want to work in, then open its Site Administration menu. 

1. In the Site Administration menu, select *People* &rarr; *Memberships*.  This opens the Site Memberships screen. 

   ![Select Memberships from the People menu.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/01.png)

1. In Memberships, select the *User Groups* tab. This tab displays any User Groups currently assigned to the Site. 

1. Click the *Add* button (![Add](../../images/icon-add.png)), select any User Groups you want to assign to the Site, then click *Done*.  The User Groups you selected now appear in the User Groups tab. 

## Managing Site Permissions with User Groups

In the [Creating and Managing User Groups](./creating-and-managing-user-groups.md) article, you learned to assign a Regular Role to a User Group for Users that need to take action across the portal. User Groups are often created so the group's Users can act only in one Site. Just as with Regular Roles, it starts by assigning the needed permissions for that action to a Site Role, and then assigning that Role to the User Group.

To grant Site scoped permissions to Users in a User Group,

1. [Create the User Group](./creating-and-managing-user-groups.md#creating-a-user-group).
1. Assign the User Group to a Site ([see above](#managing-site-membership-with-user-groups)).
1. Create the Site Role and define its permissions (see the [Help Center article on Roles and Permissions](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360028819032-Roles-and-Permissions)).
1. Assign the Role to the User Group.

The first three steps are covered elsewhere. To assign an existing Site Role to an existing User Group that's already a member of the Site,

1. Open the Menu (![Menu](../../images/icon-menu.png)), select the Site to work in, then open its Site Administration menu. 

1. In the Site Administration menu, select *People* &rarr; *Memberships*.

1. In Memberships, select the *User Groups* tab to see the User Groups currently assigned to the Site. 

1. Click the *Actions* button (![Actions](../../images/icon-actions.png)) for the User Group you want to assign to a Role, and select *Assign Roles*.

   ![Select Assign Roles for the User Group.](./managing-site-membership-and-permissions-with-user-groups/images/03.png)

1. In the Assign Roles dialog, select the Role from the list and click *Done*. 

Sites and User Groups go together like IT professionals and coffee.
