docs/commerce/2.x/en/orders-and-fulfillment/subscriptions/subscription-administration-reference-guide.md, before:

# Subscription Administration Reference Guide

Subscriptions are managed in the _Subscriptions_ menu in the _Control Panel_. This article describes the various functions and fields available in the _Subscriptions_ menu.

Navigate to the _Control Panel_ &rarr; _Commerce_ &rarr; _Subscriptions_.

![Subscriptions Management](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/01.png)

There are five fields:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ID | This is the Subscription's ID. |
| Status | The Status displays the order's status |
| Order ID | This is the Order ID that the subscription is based on. |
| Account ID | The Account ID corresponds to the account that created the subscription. |
| Account Name | The Account Name corresponds to the account name.||

Click on the Subscription's _ID_ to view the subscription order's details.

There are three tabs: General, Shipments, and Payments.

## General Tab

The _General_ tab contains the basic details of the subscription order.

### Reference Order

The _Reference Order_ section displays information about the Order:

![Payments section](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/02.png)

### Payment Subscription

![Reference](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/03.png)

The Payment Subscription section tracks the following information:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Status | This is the workflow status of the subscription. |
| Next Iteration Date | This is the next day payment is due. |
| Subscription Type | This is how the type of the subscription. |
| Subscription Length | This refers to the length of the interval between shipments. |
| Mode | This refers to the date on which the intervals are marked. Users can also select exact days of the month or _The Last Day of the Month_ as options.  |

### Delivery Subscription

The _Delivery Subscription_ section tracks the following information:

![Delivery](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/04.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Status | This is the workflow status of the subscription. |
| Next Iteration Date | This is the next day the shipment is sent out. |
| Subscription Type | This is how the type of the subscription. |
| Subscription Length | This refers to the length of the interval between shipments. |
| Mode | This refers to the date on which the intervals are marked. Users can also select exact days of the month or _The Last Day of the Month_ as options.  |

### Items

The _Items_ section lists all the products in the subscription.

![Items](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/05.png)

## Shipments Tab

The _Shipments_ tab displays the following information:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Create Date | This is the date the order was created. |
| Shipment ID | This number is generated as the [Shipment](./shipments/introduction-to-shipments.md) ID |
| Status | This is the [Order](./orders-menu-reference-guide.md)'s status. |
| Order ID | This refers to the subscription's underlying order. |
| Sent To | This is the account's shipping address. |
| Tracking | This is the carrier's tracking number. |

## Payments Tab

The _Payments_ tab tracks the order's payment history.

![Items](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/07.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Type | This refers to whether payment was made successfully or not. |
| Date | This is the date the order was created. |
| TXN ID | This is the transaction ID. |
| Amount | This refers to the order's total amount. |

## Additional Information

* [Enabling a Subscription](../../managing-a-catalog/creating-and-managing-products/products/enabling-subscriptions-for-a-product.md)
* [Managing Subscriptions](./managing-subscriptions.md)

Commit message:

Make edits to Orders articles in order to sync Orders and Shipments...plus maybe a few other edits along the way.

docs/commerce/2.x/en/orders-and-fulfillment/subscriptions/subscription-administration-reference-guide.md, after:

# Subscription Administration Reference Guide

Subscriptions are managed in the _Subscriptions_ menu in the _Control Panel_. This article describes the various functions and fields available in the _Subscriptions_ menu.

Navigate to the _Control Panel_ &rarr; _Commerce_ &rarr; _Subscriptions_.

![Subscriptions Management](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/01.png)

There are five fields:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ID | This is the Subscription's ID. |
| Status | The Status displays the order's status |
| Order ID | This is the Order ID that the subscription is based on. |
| Account ID | The Account ID corresponds to the account that created the subscription. |
| Account Name | The Account Name corresponds to the account name.||

Click on the Subscription's _ID_ to view the subscription order's details.

There are three tabs: _General_, _Shipments_, and _Payments_.

## General Tab

The _General_ tab contains the basic details of the subscription order.

### Reference Order

The _Reference Order_ section displays information about the Order:

![Payments section](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/02.png)

### Payment Subscription

The Payment Subscription section tracks the following information:

![Reference](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/03.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Status | This is the workflow status of the subscription. |
| Next Iteration Date | This is the next day payment is due. |
| Subscription Type | This is how the type of the subscription. |
| Subscription Length | This refers to the length of the interval between shipments. |
| Mode | This refers to the date on which the intervals are marked. Users can also select exact days of the month or _The Last Day of the Month_ as options.  |

### Delivery Subscription

The _Delivery Subscription_ section tracks the following information:

![Delivery](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/04.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Status | This is the workflow status of the subscription. |
| Next Iteration Date | This is the next day the shipment is sent out. |
| Subscription Type | This is how the type of the subscription. |
| Subscription Length | This refers to the length of the interval between shipments. |
| Mode | This refers to the date on which the intervals are marked. Users can also select exact days of the month or _The Last Day of the Month_ as options.  |

### Items

The _Items_ section lists all the products in the subscription.

![Items](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/05.png)

## Shipments Tab

The _Shipments_ tab displays the following information:

<!--- Why is there no screenshot for the _Shipments_ tab section, here?
-->

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Create Date | This is the date the order was created. |
| Shipment ID | This number is generated as the [Shipment](./shipments/introduction-to-shipments.md) ID |
| Status | This is the [Order](./orders-menu-reference-guide.md)'s status. |
| Order ID | This refers to the subscription's underlying order. |
| Sent To | This is the account's shipping address. |
| Tracking | This is the carrier's tracking number. |

## Payments Tab

The _Payments_ tab tracks the order's payment history.

![Items](./subscription-administration-reference-guide/images/07.png)

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Type | This refers to whether payment was made successfully or not. |
| Date | This is the date the order was created. |
| TXN ID | This is the transaction ID. |
| Amount | This refers to the order's total amount. |

## Additional Information

* [Enabling a Subscription](../../managing-a-catalog/creating-and-managing-products/products/enabling-subscriptions-for-a-product.md)
* [Managing Subscriptions](./managing-subscriptions.md)
* [Processing an Order](../orders/processing-an-order.md)
* [Intro to Shipments](../shipments/introduction-to-shipments.md)
