labs/dxp/7.x/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/README.rst, before:

Installing Apps Manually
========================

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/installing-the-marketplace-plugin`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/downloading-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/app-installation-strategies`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/installing-apps-in-production`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/managing-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/configuring-portlets-themes-and-layout-templates`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/blacklisting-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/blacklisting-osgi-components`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/renewing-apps`

Commit message:

Rename article to Purchasing Apps on Liferay Marketplace (to better portray at a glance that it is just as much about apps as it is about the Marketplace itself)

labs/dxp/7.x/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/README.rst, after:

Installing Apps Manually
========================

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/introduction-to-managing-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/purchasing-apps-on-liferay-marketplace`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/installing-the-marketplace-plugin`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/downloading-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/app-installation-strategies`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/installing-apps-in-production`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/managing-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/configuring-portlets-themes-and-layout-templates`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/blacklisting-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/blacklisting-osgi-components`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/installing-and-managing-apps/renewing-apps`
