docs/dxp/7.2.x/en/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/README.rst, before:

Upgrading Liferay
=================

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/01-introduction-to-upgrading-to-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/02-upgrading-the-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/03-pruning-the-database`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/04-example-removing-intermediate-journal-article-versions`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/05-tuning-for-the-data-upgrade`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/06-preparing-a-new-application-server-for-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/07-configuring-the-data-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/08-using-the-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/09-upgrading-modules-using-gogo-shell`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/10-executing-post-upgrade-tasks`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/97-upgrading-a-sharded-environment`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/98-deprecations-in-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/99-features-in-maintenance-mode`

Commit message:

Update for advanced installation section

docs/dxp/7.2.x/en/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/README.rst, after:

Upgrading Liferay
=================

-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/01-introduction-to-upgrading-to-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/02-upgrading-the-database`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/03-pruning-the-database`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/04-example-removing-intermediate-journal-article-versions`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/05-tuning-for-the-data-upgrade`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/06-preparing-a-new-application-server-for-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/07-configuring-the-data-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/08-using-the-upgrade-tool`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/09-upgrading-modules-using-gogo-shell`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/10-executing-post-upgrade-tasks`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/97-upgrading-a-sharded-environment`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/98-deprecations-in-liferay-dxp-7-2`
-  :doc:`/advanced-installation-and-upgrades/04-upgrading-liferay/99-features-in-maintenance-mode`
