docs/dxp/7.x/en/users-and-permissions/roles-and-permissions/assigning-roles-to-user-segments.md, before:

# Assigning Roles to User Segments

> Available: Liferay DXP 7.2 SP2+

<!-- We will need a proper introduction here about what this is all about / value proposition. -->

To assign Roles to a User Segment follow these steps:

1. Open the Product Menu and go to *Control Panel* &rarr; *Users* &rarr; *Roles*.
1. Open the Actions Menu next to the Role and select *Edit*.

    ![Edit a Role to assign the User Segment to it.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/01.png)

1. Select the *Assignees* &rarr; *Segments* tab, and click the (![Add Button](../../images/icon-add.png)) to select a User Segment.

    ![Go to the Segments tab under Assignees to assign the Role.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/02.png)

1. Check the box next to an existing User Segment and click *Add* to assign the Role to it. If the User Segment doesn't exist, you can click the (![Add Button](../../images/icon-add.png)) to create a new User Segment.

    ![Check the box next to the User Segment you want to assign the Role to.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/03.png)

The selected User Segment(s) appear(s) in the list of assignees for the Role.

![The User Segment appears under the list of Assignees for the Role.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/04.png)

## Related Information

* [Creating User Segments](../../../../site-building/personalizing-site-experience/segmentation/creating-and-managing-user-segments.md)

Commit message:

LPS-110106, site roles and segments

docs/dxp/7.x/en/users-and-permissions/roles-and-permissions/assigning-roles-to-user-segments.md, after:

# Assigning Roles to User Segments

> Available: Liferay DXP 7.2 SP2+

User Segments are dynamically assigned User collections. If a [Segment can be well-defined with the available criteria](../../../site-building/personalizing-site-experience/segmentation/creating-and-managing-user-segments.md), the administrative overhead of User management can be greatly reduced. On top of this, [personalized experiences](../../../site-building/personalizing-site-experience/introduction-to-personalizing-site-experience.md) can be defined for User Segments, ensuring that the Users see the most relevant content in your Site.

## Assigning a Regular Role to a User Segment

To assign Regular Roles to a User Segment,

1. Open the Product Menu and go to *Control Panel* &rarr; *Users* &rarr; *Roles*.

1. Open the Actions Menu (![Actions](../../../images/icon-actions.png)) next to the Role and select *Edit*.

    ![Edit a Role to assign the User Segment to it.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/01.png)

1. Select the *Assignees* &rarr; *Segments* tab, and click the (![Add Button](../../images/icon-add.png)) to select a User Segment.

    ![Go to the Segments tab under Assignees to assign the Role.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/02.png)

1. Check the box next to an existing User Segment and click *Add* to assign the Role to it. If the User Segment doesn't exist, you can click the (![Add Button](../../images/icon-add.png)) to create a new User Segment.

    ![Check the box next to the User Segment you want to assign the Role to.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/03.png)

The selected User Segment(s) appear(s) in the list of assignees for the Role.

![The User Segment appears under the list of Assignees for the Role.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/04.png)

## Assigning a Site Role to a User Segment

[Site Roles](../understanding-roles-and-permissions.md) can be assigned to Segments, with two exceptions: Site Administrator and Site Owner. The other out of the box Site Roles and any you create can be assigned to Segments.

1. Open the Product Menu and go to *People* &rarr; *Segments* in the Site Menu.

1. Open the Segment's Actions menu (![Actions](../../../images/icon-actions.png)) and click _Assign Site Roles_.

1. Assign Site Roles to the Segment, then click _Add_.

   ![Site Roles can be assigned to Segments.](./assigning-roles-to-user-segments/images/05.png)

## Related Information

* [Creating User Segments](../../../../site-building/personalizing-site-experience/segmentation/creating-and-managing-user-segments.md)
