docs/dxp/7.x/en/collaboration-and-social/message-boards/user-guide/configuring-a-message-boards-category-mailing-list.md, before:

# Configuring a Message Boards Category Mailing List

This article documents how to configure a mailing list for a message board category. Liferay DXP supports both POP and IMAP protocols. (The instructions below use POP. For more information, see [Read Gmail messages on other email clients using POP](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7104828?hl=en))

To add a mailing list to a Message Boards Category:

 > Note that the steps below apply to updating an existing _Category_ which are virtually the same when they first create the _Category_.

1. On the _Message Boards_ widget (on a site page), click the _Actions_ icon next to a Category (in this example, _Category 1_)
1. Click _Edit_ to modify an existing category.
1. Expand the _Mailing List_ section.
1. Switch the _Active_ toggle to _YES_.
1. Leave the _Allow Anonymous Emails_ toggle as _NO_.
1. Enter the following:
   * **Email address**: the dedicated email address for this category (for example: replies@lunar-resort.com)
   * **Protocol**: POP
   * **Server Name**: the mail server’s host name
   * **Server Port**: The port on which the mail service is running (110)
   * **Use a Secure Network Connection**: check
   * **User Name**: login name (info@lunar-resort.com)
   * **Password**: login credentials
   * **Read Interval (Minutes)**: 5
   * **Email Address (Outgoing)**: use the same email if you want your users to reply to the categories using email.
   * **Use Custom Outgoing Server**: leave blank if using a different mail server than the global default.

    ![Configuring a categories mailing list](./configuring-a-message-boards-category-mailing-list/images/01.png)

1. Click _Save_.

The mailing list is now active for this category. Users who have subscribed to this category will receive email notifications.

Commit message:

Part 2 of Collab Message Boards (2nd draft)

docs/dxp/7.x/en/collaboration-and-social/message-boards/user-guide/configuring-a-message-boards-category-mailing-list.md, after:

# Configuring a Message Boards Category Mailing List

This article documents how to configure a mailing list for a message board category in a **site-scoped** or **page-scoped message board**. See the [Scoping Your Message Boards](./05-scoping-your-message-boards.md) article to learn how to use scopes. Globally scoped messages boards do not support subscriptions and mailing lists. Any category in a message board can have its own mailing list.

Before configuring the Message Boards app's email lists, see the [Connecting to a Mail Server](../../../installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server.md) article for general instructions on how to configure a mail server for the entire DXP instance.

Liferay DXP supports both [POP](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7104828?hl=en) and [IMAP](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7126229?hl=en) protocols. (The instructions below use POP. For more information, see [Read Gmail messages on other email clients using POP](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7104828?hl=en)).

To add a mailing list to a Message Boards Category:

```note::
   The steps below apply to updating an existing _Category_ are virtually the same when they first create the _Category_.
```

1. On the _Message Boards_ widget (on a site page), click the _Actions_ icon next to a Category (in this example, _Category 1_)
1. Click _Edit_ to modify an existing category.
1. Expand the _Mailing List_ section.
1. Switch the _Active_ toggle to _YES_.
1. Leave the _Allow Anonymous Emails_ toggle as _NO_.
1. Enter the following:
   * **Email address**: the dedicated email address for this category (for example: replies@lunar-resort.com)
   * **Protocol**: POP
   * **Server Name**: the mail server’s host name
   * **Server Port**: The port on which the mail service is running (110)
   * **Use a Secure Network Connection**: check
   * **User Name**: login name (info@lunar-resort.com)
   * **Password**: login credentials
   * **Read Interval (Minutes)**: 5
   * **Email Address (Outgoing)**: use the same email if you want your users to reply to the categories using email.
   * **Use Custom Outgoing Server**: leave blank if using a different mail server than the global default.

    ![Configuring a categories mailing list](./configuring-a-message-boards-category-mailing-list/images/01.png)

1. Click _Save_.

The mailing list is now active for this category. Users who have subscribed to this category will receive email notifications.

## Additional Information

* If using the [IMAP](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7126229?hl=en) protocol for a category’s mailing list, make sure to [configure the IMAP inbox to delete messages](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/78892?hl=en) as they are pulled by the email client that sends messages to the users on the mailing list. Otherwise, each email message retained on the server is sent to the mailing list each time there's a new post or update in the category.
