labs/dxp/7.x/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/README.rst, before:

Setting Up Liferay DXP
======================

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/setting-up-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/mail-server-configuration-reference`
* Installing a Search Engine
* Selecting Your Locale and Encoding
* Using a Content Delivery Network
* Tuning your JVM
* Setting Up Remote Staging

Installing a Search Engine
--------------------------

Using Elasticsearch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using Solr
~~~~~~~~~~

Configuring the Document Library Repository
-------------------------------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/document-repository-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-file-system-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-advanced-file-system-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-amazon-s3-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-dbstore`

Configuring Clustering for High Availability
--------------------------------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/01-introduction-to-clustering-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/02-database-configuration-for-cluster-nodes`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/03-documents-and-media-configuration-with-clustering`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/04-clustering-search`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/05-cluster-link-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/06-configuring-unicast-over-tcp`

Commit message:

RSTs and placeholders for Marketplace article and Installing and Managing Apps articles

labs/dxp/7.x/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/README.rst, after:

Setting Up Liferay DXP
======================

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/setting-up-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/connecting-to-a-mail-server`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/mail-server-configuration-reference`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/02-setting-up-liferay-dxp/using-the-liferay-marketplace`
* Installing and Managing Apps
* Installing a Search Engine
* Selecting Your Locale and Encoding
* Using a Content Delivery Network
* Tuning your JVM
* Setting Up Remote Staging

Installing and Managing Apps
----------------------------
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/downloading-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/app-installation-strategies`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/installing-apps-in-production`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/managing-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/configuring-portlets-themes-and-layout-templates`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/blacklisting-apps`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/blacklisting-osgi-components`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/installing-and-managing-apps/renewing-apps`

Installing a Search Engine
--------------------------

Using Elasticsearch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using Solr
~~~~~~~~~~

Configuring the Document Library Repository
-------------------------------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/document-repository-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-file-system-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-advanced-file-system-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-amazon-s3-store`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-the-document-library-repository/using-the-dbstore`

Configuring Clustering for High Availability
--------------------------------------------

-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/01-introduction-to-clustering-liferay-dxp`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/02-database-configuration-for-cluster-nodes`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/03-documents-and-media-configuration-with-clustering`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/04-clustering-search`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/05-cluster-link-overview`
-  :doc:`/installation-and-upgrades/setting-up-liferay-dxp/configuring-clustering-for-high-availability/06-configuring-unicast-over-tcp`
