docs/dxp/7.2.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-to-liferay-7-2/05-preparing-a-new-application-server-for-liferay-dxp.md, before:

# Preparing a New Application Server for Liferay DXP

To upgrade your Liferay DXP database, prepare a new application server for hosting Liferay DXP. You'll use this server to run the database upgrade and then run Liferay DXP.

## Request an Upgrade Patch from Liferay Support

Get the latest fixes for Liferay DXP by requesting an upgrade patch. An *upgrade patch* contains the latest fix pack and hot fixes planned for the next service pack. Upgrade patches provide the latest fixes available for your data upgrade.

## Install Liferay DXP 7.2

[Install DXP 7.2 on your application server](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/deploying-product) or [use DXP 7.2 bundled with your application server of choice](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/installing-product). 

**Warning:** Do not start your application server with your database yet. It will not be ready to start until after the database upgrade to DXP 7.2. 

## Install the Latest Upgrade Patch or Fix Pack

Install the upgrade patch (if you requested it from Liferay Support) or the [latest Fix Pack](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360028810452-Patching-Liferay-DXP). 

## Migrate Your OSGi Configurations (7.0+)

Copy any [OSGi configuration files](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/understanding-system-configuration-files) (i.e., `.config` files) to your new application server's `[Liferay Home]/osgi/configs` folder. 

## Migrate Your Portal Properties 

It is likely that you have overridden portal properties to customize your installation. If so, you must update the properties files (e.g., `portal-setup-wizard.properties` and `portal-ext.properties`) to DXP 7.2.

For features that use OSGi Config Admin in DXP 7.2, you must convert your properties to OSGi configurations. As you do this, you must account for property changes in all versions of Liferay DXP since your current version up to and including 7.2.

### Update Your Portal Properties 

If you're coming from a version prior to Liferay Portal 6.2, start with these
property-related updates:

-   If you're on Liferay Portal 6.1, [adapt your properties to the new defaults that Liferay Portal 6.2 introduced](/docs/6-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/upgrading-liferay#review-the-liferay-6). 

-   If you have a sharded environment, [configure your upgrade to generate a non-sharded environment](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/upgrading-a-sharded-environment).

-   Liferay's image sprite framework is deprecated as of 7.2 and is disabled by default. The framework requires scanning plugins for image sprites. If you don't use the framework, there's no need for it to scan for images sprites. If you use the framework yourself, enable it by overriding the default `sprite.enabled` portal property (new in 7.2) value with the following setting in your [`portal-ext.properties`](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/portal-properties) file: 

    ```properties
    sprite.enabled=true
    ```

**Note:** You can build image sprites using any framework you like and deploy them in your plugins. 

As with most new versions of Liferay DXP, 7.2 includes changes to the default settings. If you rely on the defaults from your old version, you should review the changes and decide to keep the defaults from your old version or accept the defaults of the new.

No existing properties have changed between versions 7.1 and 7.2. However, here is a list of changed values from properties that have existed since version 6.2: 

```properties
users.image.check.token=false
organizations.types=regular-organization,location
organizations.rootable[regular-organization]=true
organizations.children.types[regular-organization]=regular-organization,location
organizations.country.enabled[regular-organization]=false
organizations.country.required[regular-organization]=false
organizations.rootable[location]=false
organizations.country.enabled[location]=true
organizations.country.required[location]=true
layout.set.prototype.propagate.logo=true
editor.wysiwyg.portal-web.docroot.html.taglib.ui.discussion.jsp=simple
web.server.servlet.check.image.gallery=true
blogs.trackback.enabled=true
discussion.comments.format=bbcode
discussion.max.comments=0
dl.file.entry.thumbnail.max.height=128
dl.file.entry.thumbnail.max.width=128
```

This property was has also been removed:

```properties
organizations.children.types[location]
```

The latest [portal properties reference](@platform-ref@/7.2-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html) provides property details and examples. Some properties are now replaced by OSGi configurations. 

### Convert Applicable Properties to OSGi Configurations 

Properties in modularized features have changed and must now be deployed separately in [OSGi configuration files](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/system-settings#exporting-and-importing-configurations) (OSGi Config Admin).

Use the [`blade upgradeProps`](/docs/7-2/reference/-/knowledge_base/r/blade-cli) command to scan your `portal-ext.properties` file to discover which properties are now set via OSGi Config Admin. You can also check the upgrade log from previous attempts for traces like these:

```
2019-03-09 17:05:17.678 ERROR [main][VerifyProperties:161] Portal property "layout.first.pageable[link_to_layout]" is obsolete
2019-03-09 17:05:17.679 ERROR [main][VerifyProperties:136] Portal property "journal.article.check.interval" was modularized to com.liferay.journal.web as "check.interval"
```

**Tip:** The Control Panel's _System Settings_ screens (under _Configuration_) are the most accurate way to create `.config` files. Use them to [export a screen's configuration](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/system-settings#exporting-and-importing-configurations) to a `.config` file. 

## Update Your Database Driver 

Install the recommended database driver and update your database connection driver specified in your `portal-ext.properties`. See the [Database Templates](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/database-templates) for more information. 

## Configure Your Documents and Media File Store 

General document store configuration (e.g., `dl.store.impl=[File Store Impl Class]`) continues to be done using `portal-ext.properties`. But here's what's changed for document storage:

- Store implementation class package names changed from `com.liferay.portlet.documentlibrary.store.*` in Liferay Portal 6.2 to `com.liferay.portal.store.*` in @product@ 7.0+. Make sure your `portal-ext.properties` file sets `dl.store.impl` in one of these ways:

    ```properties
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.FileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.db.DBStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.AdvancedFileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.s3.S3Store
    ```

- JCR Store was deprecated in @product@ 7.0. The [Document Repository Configuration](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/document-repository-configuration) documentation describes other store options. [Migrate to a supported document store](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/server-administration) before upgrading your data. 

- CMIS Store was deprecated since 7.0.10 Fix Pack 14 and was removed in DXP 7.2. The [Document Repository Configuration](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/document-repository-configuration) documentation describes other store options. [Migrate to a supported document store](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/server-administration) before upgrading your data. 

- Since DXP 7.0, document store type-specific configuration (e.g., specific to Simple File Store, Advanced File Store, S3, etc.) is done in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ → _System Settings_ → File Storage_, or using OSGi configuration files (`.config` files). Type specific configuration is no longer done using `portal-ext.properties`. 

    For example, use these steps to create a `.config` file specifying a root file
    location for a Simple File Store or Advanced File Store:
 
    1. Create a `.config` file named after your store implementation class.

    Simple File Store: 
    `com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.configuration.FileSystemStoreConfiguration.config`

    Advanced File Store:
    `com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.configuration.AdvancedFileSystemStoreConfiguration.config`
 
    1. Set the following `rootDir` property and replace 
    `{document_library_path}` with  your file store's path.

    ```properties
    rootDir="{document_library_path}"
    ```

    1. Copy the `.config` file to your `[Liferay Home]/osgi/configs` folder.

The [Document Repository Configuration](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/document-repository-configuration)provides more document store configuration details. 

## Configure Kerberos in place of NTLM 

If you're using NTLM to authenticate Microsoft Windows™ accounts with Liferay DXP, switch to using [Kerberos](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/authenticating-with-kerberos). Security vulnerabilities persist with NTLM. NTLM has been deprecated and removed from the bundle, but you can still [build and deploy the module](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/tree/7.2.x/modules/apps/portal-security-sso-ntlm).

Commit message:

Clean up sharding upgrade article (formatting, wordsmithing, factoring out parts of the article that overlap with other upgrade steps, and adding more references to the article)

docs/dxp/7.2.x/en/installation-and-upgrades/upgrading-to-liferay-7-2/05-preparing-a-new-application-server-for-liferay-dxp.md, after:

# Preparing a New Application Server for Liferay DXP

To upgrade your Liferay DXP database, prepare a new application server for hosting Liferay DXP. You'll use this server to run the database upgrade and then run Liferay DXP.

**Note:** If you are upgrading from a version prior to DXP 7.0 and using a sharded environment, you will need to migrate your shards to multiple application servers, because sharding is no longer supported. Prepare one new application server for each shard.

## Request an Upgrade Patch from Liferay Support

Get the latest fixes for Liferay DXP by requesting an upgrade patch. An *upgrade patch* contains the latest fix pack and hot fixes planned for the next service pack. Upgrade patches provide the latest fixes available for your data upgrade.

## Install Liferay DXP 7.2

[Install DXP 7.2 on your application server](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/deploying-product) or [use DXP 7.2 bundled with your application server of choice](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/installing-product). 

**Warning:** Do not start your application server with your database yet. It will not be ready to start until after the database upgrade to DXP 7.2. 

## Install the Latest Upgrade Patch or Fix Pack

Install the upgrade patch (if you requested it from Liferay Support) or the [latest Fix Pack](https://help.liferay.com/hc/en-us/articles/360028810452-Patching-Liferay-DXP). 

## Migrate Your OSGi Configurations (7.0+)

Copy any [OSGi configuration files](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/understanding-system-configuration-files) (i.e., `.config` files) to your new application server's `[Liferay Home]/osgi/configs` folder. 

## Migrate Your Portal Properties 

It is likely that you have overridden portal properties to customize your installation. If so, you must update the properties files (e.g., `portal-setup-wizard.properties` and `portal-ext.properties`) to DXP 7.2.

For features that use OSGi Config Admin in DXP 7.2, you must convert your properties to OSGi configurations. As you do this, you must account for property changes in all versions of Liferay DXP since your current version up to and including 7.2.

### Update Your Portal Properties 

If you're coming from a version prior to Liferay Portal 6.2, start with these
property-related updates:

-   If you're on Liferay Portal 6.1, [adapt your properties to the new defaults that Liferay Portal 6.2 introduced](/docs/6-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/upgrading-liferay#review-the-liferay-6). 

-   If you have a sharded environment, [configure your upgrade to generate a non-sharded environment](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/upgrading-a-sharded-environment).

-   Liferay's image sprite framework is deprecated as of 7.2 and is disabled by default. The framework requires scanning plugins for image sprites. If you don't use the framework, there's no need for it to scan for images sprites. If you use the framework yourself, enable it by overriding the default `sprite.enabled` portal property (new in 7.2) value with the following setting in your [`portal-ext.properties`](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/portal-properties) file: 

    ```properties
    sprite.enabled=true
    ```

**Note:** You can build image sprites using any framework you like and deploy them in your plugins. 

As with most new versions of Liferay DXP, 7.2 includes changes to the default settings. If you rely on the defaults from your old version, you should review the changes and decide to keep the defaults from your old version or accept the defaults of the new.

No existing properties have changed between versions 7.1 and 7.2. However, here is a list of changed values from properties that have existed since version 6.2: 

```properties
users.image.check.token=false
organizations.types=regular-organization,location
organizations.rootable[regular-organization]=true
organizations.children.types[regular-organization]=regular-organization,location
organizations.country.enabled[regular-organization]=false
organizations.country.required[regular-organization]=false
organizations.rootable[location]=false
organizations.country.enabled[location]=true
organizations.country.required[location]=true
layout.set.prototype.propagate.logo=true
editor.wysiwyg.portal-web.docroot.html.taglib.ui.discussion.jsp=simple
web.server.servlet.check.image.gallery=true
blogs.trackback.enabled=true
discussion.comments.format=bbcode
discussion.max.comments=0
dl.file.entry.thumbnail.max.height=128
dl.file.entry.thumbnail.max.width=128
```

This property was has also been removed:

```properties
organizations.children.types[location]
```

The latest [portal properties reference](@platform-ref@/7.2-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html) provides property details and examples. Some properties are now replaced by OSGi configurations. 

### Convert Applicable Properties to OSGi Configurations 

Properties in modularized features have changed and must now be deployed separately in [OSGi configuration files](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/system-settings#exporting-and-importing-configurations) (OSGi Config Admin).

Use the [`blade upgradeProps`](/docs/7-2/reference/-/knowledge_base/r/blade-cli) command to scan your `portal-ext.properties` file to discover which properties are now set via OSGi Config Admin. You can also check the upgrade log from previous attempts for traces like these:

```
2019-03-09 17:05:17.678 ERROR [main][VerifyProperties:161] Portal property "layout.first.pageable[link_to_layout]" is obsolete
2019-03-09 17:05:17.679 ERROR [main][VerifyProperties:136] Portal property "journal.article.check.interval" was modularized to com.liferay.journal.web as "check.interval"
```

**Tip:** The Control Panel's _System Settings_ screens (under _Configuration_) are the most accurate way to create `.config` files. Use them to [export a screen's configuration](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/system-settings#exporting-and-importing-configurations) to a `.config` file. 

## Update Your Database Driver 

Install the recommended database driver and update your database connection driver specified in your `portal-ext.properties`. See the [Database Templates](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/database-templates) for more information. 

## Configure Your Documents and Media File Store 

General document store configuration (e.g., `dl.store.impl=[File Store Impl Class]`) continues to be done using `portal-ext.properties`. But here's what's changed for document storage:

- Store implementation class package names changed from `com.liferay.portlet.documentlibrary.store.*` in Liferay Portal 6.2 to `com.liferay.portal.store.*` in @product@ 7.0+. Make sure your `portal-ext.properties` file sets `dl.store.impl` in one of these ways:

    ```properties
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.FileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.db.DBStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.AdvancedFileSystemStore
    dl.store.impl=com.liferay.portal.store.s3.S3Store
    ```

- JCR Store was deprecated in @product@ 7.0. The [Document Repository Configuration](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/document-repository-configuration) documentation describes other store options. [Migrate to a supported document store](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/server-administration) before upgrading your data. 

- CMIS Store was deprecated since 7.0.10 Fix Pack 14 and was removed in DXP 7.2. The [Document Repository Configuration](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/document-repository-configuration) documentation describes other store options. [Migrate to a supported document store](/docs/7-2/user/-/knowledge_base/u/server-administration) before upgrading your data. 

- Since DXP 7.0, document store type-specific configuration (e.g., specific to Simple File Store, Advanced File Store, S3, etc.) is done in the Control Panel at _Configuration_ → _System Settings_ → File Storage_, or using OSGi configuration files (`.config` files). Type specific configuration is no longer done using `portal-ext.properties`. 

    For example, use these steps to create a `.config` file specifying a root file
    location for a Simple File Store or Advanced File Store:
 
    1. Create a `.config` file named after your store implementation class.

    Simple File Store: 
    `com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.configuration.FileSystemStoreConfiguration.config`

    Advanced File Store:
    `com.liferay.portal.store.file.system.configuration.AdvancedFileSystemStoreConfiguration.config`
 
    1. Set the following `rootDir` property and replace 
    `{document_library_path}` with  your file store's path.

    ```properties
    rootDir="{document_library_path}"
    ```

    1. Copy the `.config` file to your `[Liferay Home]/osgi/configs` folder.

The [Document Repository Configuration](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/document-repository-configuration)provides more document store configuration details. 

## Configure Kerberos in place of NTLM 

If you're using NTLM to authenticate Microsoft Windows™ accounts with Liferay DXP, switch to using [Kerberos](/docs/7-2/deploy/-/knowledge_base/d/authenticating-with-kerberos). Security vulnerabilities persist with NTLM. NTLM has been deprecated and removed from the bundle, but you can still [build and deploy the module](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/tree/7.2.x/modules/apps/portal-security-sso-ntlm).
